ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3TANG Yuanqi , ZHANG Huimin , ZHENG Zheng , LI Ping , ZHU Yu Research Papers   Hybrid Architecture and Beamforming Optimization for Millimeter Wave Systems
refers to the case where the number of overlapped antennas 
equals half the number of transmit antennas in the OL archi ‐
tecture . As shown in Fig . 5, the performance of the HBF -
WMO algorithm improves with more transmit antennas . Fig. 6 
also shows that the gap between the performance of the HBF -
WMO algorithm and the optimal FDBF algorithm narrows with more RF chains equipped at the transmitter .
5.2 Performance with Different Partitions of Antenna 
Subarrays
Next, we compare the performance of fixed and dynamic 
partitions of antenna subarrays with the PC architecture . Four 
types of partitions under the fixed PC architecture are consid ‐
ered at the transmitter , as shown in Fig . 7. For the HBF sys ‐
tem with the PC -dynamic architecture , the antenna subarrays 
are first dynamically partitioned based on the algorithm pro ‐
posed in Section 4 and then the HBF matrices are optimized 
based on the HBF -WMO algorithm in Section 3. Fig. 8 shows 
the average spectral efficiency performance as a function of 
SNR with fixed and dynamic antenna subarrays . It can be 
seen that of the four fixed partition types , the third one 
achieves the best performance . This is mainly due to the bal ‐
anced horizontal and vertical angle resolution of the subarray 
in the third type and the original distribution of angles in CDL -
A. It is also shown that the dynamic partition outperforms the 
third fixed partition type with about 1 dB at the cost of more 
power consumption and the associated complex circuit 
brought by Nt=512 more switches employed in the switch 
network . According to Ref . [24], the power consumed by each 
switch is about 5 mW .
6 Conclusions
With relatively small hardware costs and performance loss 
compared with FDBF , HBF for mmWave communication sys ‐
tems has attracted much attention . Meanwhile , the design of 
hybrid architecture has also become a research hotspot consid ‐
ering the practical implementation complexity . We have inves ‐
▲Figure 6. Spectral efficiency vs number of transmit RF chains for the 
HBF -WMO algorithm with different fixed hybrid architectures for a mas‑
sive multiple -input multiple -output -orthogonal frequency division multi ‑
plexing (MIMO -OFDM )  system with SNR =0 dB, N=64, Nt=512, Nr=8, 
Nt
RF=2, Ns=2FC: fully -connected
FD: fully digital
OL: overlappedPC: partially -connected
SVD: singular value decomposition
ZF: zero forcing
▲Figure 7. Diagram of four fixed subarray types with the partially -connected architecture at the transmitter with Nt=512, Nt
RF=4 Spectral efficiency/ (bit•s−1•Hz−1)FD-SVD
FD-ZF
FC
PC
OL 1/2
NRF2 3 4 5 6 7 812.5
11.5
10.5
9.5
PC type 1
PC type 3PC type 2
PC type 4
102