ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3ZHU Yuting , LI Zeng , ZHANG Hongtao Research Papers   Robust Beamforming Under Channel Prediction Errors for Time -Varying MIMO System
Thus , the acquired CSI is inevitably outdated , leading to out ‐
dated beamforming design and then performance degradation . 
Considering the CSI used for DL transmission is not always 
perfect in practice , several studies of robust beamforming 
have been carried out[6–7]. Ref. [6] introduced an iterative al ‐
gorithm to maximize the linear assignment weighted sum rate 
with statistical CSI under channel fading conditions . In Ref . 
[7], a robust coordinated beamforming method is proposed to 
maintain the weighted sum -rate performance with inaccurate 
CSI. The channel aging effect still weakens the robust benefit 
dramatically[8], so more accurate CSI is needed from the view ‐
point of CSI , which can be achieved by channel prediction 
technology .
Channel prediction technology is an effective way to combat 
the detrimental effects of channel aging and keep the track of 
the time -varying channel[9], which predicts the future channels 
by exploiting the potential temporal correlation from those in 
the past[10]. There are various prediction methods from autore ‐
gressive (AR) model -based methods to deep learning[11]. The 
AR model is commonly used , which treats the time -varying 
channel as a wide -sense stationary stochastic process[9, 12], and 
deep learning requires a mass of samples for training[13]. Be‐
sides , by utilizing the time and spatial properties of channels , 
the authors in Ref . [14] proposed an angle -domain channel 
tracking scheme for high -speed railway communications , and 
spatial -temporal sparse structures are further exhibited to pro ‐
pose a novel estimation and prediction scheme for time -
varying massive MIMO channels[15]. Furthermore , to solve the 
problem of tracking the nonlinear channels , the kernel recur ‐
sive least squares (KRLS )[16–17] algorithm is proposed , map ‐
ping the channel sample space to the high -dimensional space , 
and it shows great adaptiveness .
Based on the predicted CSI , linear or nonlinear interpola ‐
tion can be employed for predicting the DL channel between 
the current channel and the predicted one[18]. Ref. [19] evalu ‐
ated the benefit of channel prediction in adaptive beamform ‐
ing systems and showed the tolerable Doppler spread increase 
for a given outage performance by using prediction . However , 
there still exist errors in the channel prediction , which be ‐
comes more obvious as the mobility increases[20]. The exis ‐
tence of errors between the acquired CSI and the real -time 
CSI will result in the performance error cost since the de ‐
signed beamforming does not match the real channel . How ‐
ever, most of the existing works focus on the impact that the 
channel prediction error brings[21], while no robust beamform ‐
ing for improving the performance under channel prediction 
errors is considered . Moreover , the channel prediction errors 
are often constructed as complex Gaussian random variables 
with independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.), zero mean 
and unit variance entries , which does not consider the statisti ‐
cal characteristics .
Motivated by the above , we propose a robust beamforming 
design under channel prediction errors based on channel pre ‐diction for the time -varying MIMO system in this paper . The 
main contributions of this work are summarized as follows . 1) 
A framework of TDD system for beamforming based on chan ‐
nel prediction is introduced , with a novel prediction error 
model that combines channel statistical information and a 
Gaussian random matrix , including the joint correlation prop ‐
erties of realistic massive MIMO channels . 2) To maximize the 
sum -rate performance , we propose a robust beamforming de ‐
sign based on channel prediction , utilizing the deterministic 
equivalents method to explore further potential beamforming 
gain brought by the static statistical information , breaking 
through the performance limitation brought by the channel 
prediction errors . 3) The beamforming gains compared with 
traditional benchmarks under different mobile scenes are vali ‐
dated by simulation , and we investigate the performance dur ‐
ing the half -frame period to reflect the loss caused by the time -
varying effect .
The rest of this paper is organized as follows . Section 2 pres ‐
ents the proposed framework of the system including the sys ‐
tem model and the formulation of the discussed problem . Sec‐
tion 3 introduces the proposed robust beamforming design . 
Section 4 provides the simulation results and performance dis ‐
cussion . Finally , we conclude this paper in Section 5.
2 System Model and Problem Formulation
In this paper , we focus on the TDD system , and the CSI used 
for DL transmission is obtained depending on the channel reci ‐
procity . As shown in Fig . 1, we consider a MU -MIMO system 
where one base station (BS) equipped with Nt transmit anten ‐
nas serves K pieces of mobile user equipment (UE), and each 
is equipped with Nr receive antennas . Denote HS
i, k∈CNr×Nt as 
the CSI matrix spanning from the BS to the k-th piece of UE 
▲Figure 1. Illustration of a time -division duplex (TDD ) mu lti-user 
multiple -input multiple -output (MU -MIMO ) system where v denotes the 
speed of mobile UEUE: user equipmentUE kvUE 1v
……
Downlink
beamforming
Sounding
reference signal
78