ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3LI Wei , JI Jingkang , LIU Yuanlong , SUN Jiawei , LIN Subin Research Papers   Simulation and Modeling of Common Mode EMI Noise in Planar Transformers
In Ref . [9], considering the winding potential gradient 
distribution of planar transformers , a two -capacitance 
model based on common -mode current equivalence is de ‐
rived based on the winding structure theory . However , the 
results obtained from the theoretical calculation consider 
the common -mode equivalent capacitance to be constant , ig‐
noring the case that the common -mode equivalent capaci ‐
tance is no longer a pure capacitance at high frequencies . 
Refs . [10–11] propose a method for evaluating the 
common -mode EMI characteristics of transformers using 
vector network analyzer experimental measurements . In 
this method , the transformer is treated as a common -mode 
noise filter , and the insertion loss parameter S21 [12–13] used 
to evaluate the EMI filter performance is referenced into 
the transformer . The experiment proves that it is feasible 
and effective to use the insertion loss measurement prin ‐
ciple to evaluate the common mode noise rejection capabil ‐
ity of the transformer . However , Refs . [10–11] only use S21 
as the evaluation basis without further analyzing the spe ‐
cific meaning of the complete S-parameters obtained by the 
vector network analyzer to measure the transformer .
Section 2 analyzes the common mode noise transmission 
mechanism of the planar transformer , and deduces the ex ‐
pression of the induced charge Q between the primary and 
secondary windings according to the potential distribution of 
the windings when the planar transformer is working . From 
the expression , two capacitors are sufficient to represent the 
common -mode noise of the transformer . Section 3 establishes 
the electromagnetic compatibility equivalent circuit model of 
planar transformers according to the common mode noise 
transmission mechanism and the energy transmission charac ‐
teristics of the transformer and introduces a method to estab ‐
lish the electromagnetic compatibility model of the full -
bridge transformer through the experimental measurement of 
the network analyzer . Section 4 is based on the principle of 
experimental measurement and modeling of the network ana ‐
lyzer , and the two -port parameters of the planar transformer 
are extracted through the electromagnetic field finite element 
simulation software without physical objects , and are equiva ‐
lent to a circuit model . Finally , the accuracy of the simula ‐
tion modeling is verified by a full -bridge circuit prototype ex ‐
periment in Section 5. Section 6 concludes this paper .
2 Transmission Mechanism of Common 
Mode Noise in Planar Transformers
2.1 Structural Capacitance Calculation
The common -mode noise transmission of the planar trans ‐
former is mainly through the distributed capacitance be ‐
tween the primary winding and the secondary winding . It is 
worth noting that the distributed capacitance of the trans ‐
former is not equal to the equivalent capacitance of the com ‐
mon mode noise , because the voltage on the planar trans ‐former winding is not a constant value . However , the deriva ‐
tion of the common -mode noise equivalent capacitance is 
based on the distributed capacitance of the planar trans ‐
former . The simulation results of a one -turn -to-one -turn cir ‐
cular plane copper wire are sho wn in Fig . 1. Fig. 1(a) shows a 
simulation model of a one -turn -to-one -turn circular planar 
copper conductor . In Fig . 1(c), the planar transformer wind ‐
ing uses PCB wiring , and the distance d between the turns of 
the primary and secondary windings is the distance between 
the layers of the PCB . For a planar transformer with a single -
layer single -turn structure , considering the current flow fac ‐
tor, the wiring width w of the winding is generally much 
larger than d, and the distributed capacitance between the 
primary winding and the secondary winding can be approxi ‐
mately regarded as a parallel plate capacitor , ignoring the 
edge effect . Then the structural capacitance C0 between 
turns in Fig . 1(c) can be expressed as :
C0=εrε0S
d,(1)
where εr is the dielectric constant of the filling material be ‐
tween the PCB layers , ε0 is the dielectric constant in 
vacuum , S is the facing area between turns , and d is the dis ‐
tance between turns .
Since the method of approximating parallel plate capaci ‐
tors is used in the calculation of the capacitance of the pla ‐
nar transformer structure , in order to test the rationality and 
accuracy of the approximation , the electromagnetic field fi ‐
nite element simulation software is used to verify the winding 
structural capacitance .
Taking a turn -to-turn ring -shaped flat copper wire as an 
example , we list the model parameters as follows : the copper 
thickness is 1 mm, the inner diameter is 12.3 mm, the outer 
▲Figure 1. Simulation results of one -turn -to-one -turn toroidal planar 
copper conductors(a) Simulation model of one -turn -to-one -turn circular planar copper conductor
(b) Electric field intensity distribution between turns
(c) Electric field energy distribution between turns
106