ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3XIE Xinyu , WU Yongpeng , YUAN Zhifeng , MA Yihua Massive Unsourced Random Access Under Carrier Frequency Offset   Research Papers
Massive Unsourced Random Access Massive Unsourced Random Access 
Under Carrier Frequency OffsetUnder Carrier Frequency Offset
XIE Xinyu1, WU Yongpeng1, YUAN Zhifeng2,3, MA Yihua2,3
(1. Shanghai Jiao Tong University , Shanghai 200240 , China；
 2. ZTE Corporation , Shenzhen 518057 , China；
 3. State Key Laboratory of Mobile Network and Mobile Multimedia 
Technology , Shenzhen 518055 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303007
https ://link .cnki.net/urlid/ 34.1294 .TN.20230830 .1507 .003, published online 
August 30, 2023
Manuscript received : 2022 -05-22
Abstract : Unsourced random access (URA ) is a new perspective of massive access which aims at supporting numerous machine -type users . 
With the appearance of carrier frequency offset (CFO), joint activity detection and channel estimation , which is vital for multiple -input and 
multiple -output URA , is a challenging task . To handle the phase corruption of channel measurements under CFO , a novel compressed sensing 
algorithm is proposed , leveraging the parametric bilinear generalized approximate message passing framework with a Markov chain support 
model that captures the block sparsity structure of the considered angular domain channel . An uncoupled transmission scheme is proposed to 
reduce system complexity , where slot -emitted messages are reorganized relying on clustering unique user channels . Simulation results reveal 
that the proposed transmission design for URA under CFO outperforms other potential methods .
Keywords : activity detection ; channel estimation ; frequency offset ; massive machine -type communication ; massive MIMO
Citation  (Format 1): XIE X Y , WU Y P , YUAN Z F , et al . Massive unsourced random access under carrier frequency offset [J]. ZTE Communi ‐
cations , 2023 , 21(3): 45–53. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303007
Citation  (Format 2): X. Y. Xie, Y. P. Wu, Z. F. Yuan , et al ., “Massive unsourced random access under carrier frequency offset ,” ZTE Commu ⁃
nications , vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 45–53, Sept . 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303007 .
1 Introduction
Massive machine -type communication (mMTC )[1], 
also known as massive access[2], is one of the three 
typical application scenarios in the 5G mobile com ‐
munication system . MMTC aims at establishing re ‐
liable communications for a massive number of cheap devices 
with sporadic data stream patterns and short packet length , 
which is quite different from conventional human -type commu ‐
nications (HTC ). Hence , the design of efficient massive con ‐
nectivity schemes requires investigating novel theories and 
paradigms .
To reduce signaling overhead and latency , existing mMTC 
schemes generally follow a grant -free random access (RA) pro‐
tocol[3] where users directly transmit data to the base station 
(BS) without any approval . One type of grant -free RA 
scheme[4–6] allocates unique pilots as identities to users ; they 
are sent first as preambles for activity detection (AD) and 
channel estimation (CE). Data transmission happens in the 
next stage leveraging efficient RA techniques like sparse code 
multiple access (SCMA )[7] with individual user codebooks . A 
novel paradigm of unsourced random access (URA ) was first addressed in Ref . [8]. Different from pilot -based RA schemes , 
URA users are forced to use the same codebook for data trans ‐
mission . Since the transmitted codewords contain no user iden ‐
tities , the BS only acquires a list of transmitted messages with ‐
out linking them to specific active users . A finite block -length 
(FBL) achievability bound was derived in Ref . [8], and it is 
found that there exists an important gap between conventional 
RA schemes like ALOHA and the benchmark .
It is evident that an intuitive URA scheme is closely related 
to a compressed sensing (CS) recovery problem , involving AD 
to the set of codewords each linked to a potential message se ‐
quence . However , directly applying CS techniques is impracti ‐
cal because the codebook size grows exponentially to the mes ‐
sage length . To approach the FBL bound with manageable 
complexity , the coded compressed sensing (CCS) framework[9] 
is investigated which couples an outer tree code and an inner 
CS code . More specifically , each datum is partitioned into sev ‐
eral sub -blocks ; they are coupled by appending parity check 
bits generated from linear block coding , thereby forming frag ‐
ments to be sent over multiple slots using a common code ‐
book . The BS detects codeword activity via a CS recovery 
method , and then reconstructs the original messages by a tree -
based forward error correction strategy .
Utilizing a large number of antennas at the BS , the massive 
This work was supported by the ZTE Industry⁃University⁃Institute Cooper ⁃
ation Funds under Grant No . HC⁃CN⁃ 20201116001 .
45