ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3CHENG Lei , QIN Shuang , FENG Gang Learning -Based Admission Control for Low -Earth -Orbit Satellite Communication Networks    Research Papers
vices in satellite systems is to allocate channel resources of 
beam cells by a priority -based channel reservation strategy , 
which has been intensively investigated in satellite communi ‐
cation systems[4–10]. The basic idea is to reserve a certain num ‐
ber of channels for handover calls and new calls with different 
service priorities , to guarantee the priority of handover calls 
and delay -sensitive services to ensure the continuity of calls 
for moving UTs .
Existing channel reservation strategies are mainly classified 
into two categories , fixed channel reservation (FCR) and dy ‐
namic channel reservation (DCR ). A guaranteed handover 
FCR strategy was proposed in Ref . [7], which reserves a por ‐
tion of channel resources dedicated to handover calls . Some 
improvements have been made later , such as the channel 
status -based reservation strategy (CSRS )[8] and time -based 
channel reservation algorithm (TCRA )[9], which set the number 
of reserved channels based on the information including the 
status of the cell and/or the remaining time . However , fixed re ‐
served channels cannot adapt to the dynamic environment and 
multi -service requests , causing a high blocking rate for new 
calls. In Refs . [10–15], the authors proposed adaptive DCR 
strategies based on different prior information to dynamically 
change the number of channels reserved . The authors of Ref . 
[10] proposed to adjust the number of reserved channels , ac‐
cording to the current number of ongoing calls (voice or video 
traffic ) and the localization of users . In Ref . [11], a grey model 
was used to decide whether the calls need to handover and 
then dynamically adjust the channel reservation number 
based on the counter . The authors of Ref . [12] leveraged the 
number of mobile stations in neighbor locations and the aver ‐
age handover call arrival rate to reserve channels . Ref. [13] 
considered the varying characteristics of the wireless channel 
to allocate resources , aiming at maximizing spectral effi ‐
ciency . The authors of Ref . [15] proposed an adaptive 
probability -based reservation strategy (APRS ) based on mo ‐
bile users ’ location information and the handover probability , 
to improve the utilization of reserved channels in reservation 
time. Due to the imbalance between the new call blocking rate 
and handover call failure rate , the system performance is not 
satisfactory . Some researchers have used heuristic algorithms 
to adjust the thresholds , and the authors of Ref . [4] proposed a 
probability -based channel reservation strategy for improving 
the quality of service . The authors of Ref . [5] proposed a 
threshold -based DCR scheme to set optimal thresholds for 
different -priority services by the genetic algorithm .
However , all aforementioned schemes cannot respond 
quickly to dynamic changes and uneven distribution of service 
requirements , since they only consider finding the optimum in 
the current state , while a long -term optimization is needed to 
improve the system performance . With this regard , some re ‐
searchers resort to exploiting machine learning algorithms for 
designing intelligent channel reservation schemes to achieve 
long -term performance improvement for complex satellite net ‐works . The authors of Ref . [15] proposed a dynamic channel 
allocation algorithm based on deep reinforcement learning 
(DRL ), which uses convolutional neural networks to extract 
useful features to make accurate admission decisions . It can 
effectively reduce the blocking rate and improve system 
throughput . But this work focused on processing the connec ‐
tion relationship of the UT in the beam and considered only a 
single service type . The authors of Ref . [6] proposed a multi -
service DCR strategy based on the deep Q network to improve 
the overall service quality of the system , by examining the im ‐
pact of current channel reservation results on the future envi ‐
ronment . They mainly considered how to reserve channels for 
new calls , while ignoring the impact of handover calls . Unfor ‐
tunately , all the aforementioned works lack consideration of 
multi -priority services and frequent handovers in highly dy ‐
namic LEO satellite networks . Therefore , it is imperative to de ‐
velop an intelligent admission control scheme to maximize 
long -term system performance by performing appropriate 
channel resource allocation for LEO satellite networks .
In this paper , we propose an intelligent DCR strategy based 
on the Actor -Critic algorithm (AC -DCRS ), which dynamically 
adjusts the reserved channel thresholds for multi -service 
calls. While traditional solutions only obtain the optimal solu ‐
tion of the current state in a memoryless system , our proposed 
AC -DCRS based on reinforcement learning can consistently 
approach the long -term optimal solution by considering the 
Markov property of the channel reservation problem . Specifi ‐
cally , the Actor -Critic algorithm is leveraged to deal with con ‐
tinuous state space and high -dimensional action space . 
Through interactions with the network environment , AC -
DRCS can well balance the admission of handover calls and 
new calls of multiple priorities by setting corresponding 
thresholds under the current traffic state .
The rest of the paper is structured as follows . Section 2 pres ‐
ents the system model and problem formulation . Section 3 
elaborates on the proposed AC -based DCR strategy . We evalu ‐
ate the performance of the proposed strategy in Section 4 and 
finally conclude the paper in Section 5.
2 System Model and Problem Formulation
We consider a typical LEO communication network shown 
in Fig . 1. The coverage area of a single moving LEO satellite 
consists of multiple adjacent beam cells . A UT in the beam 
cell establishes a connection to the LEO satellite directly or 
through the base station in the beam cell . Handover call re ‐
quests will arrive during the movement of the UT and satel ‐
lites. At the same time , new call requests may also arrive re ‐
quiring channel resources from the connected beam cell .
2.1 LEO Mobility Model
Without loss of generality , we consider a one -dimensional 
square continuous beam cell model , which can be readily ex ‐
tended to high -dimensional models . Since the moving speed of 
55