ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3CHENG Lei , QIN Shuang , FENG Gang Research Papers   Learning -Based Admission Control for Low -Earth -Orbit Satellite Communication Networks
the UT is much slower than that of the LEO satellites , it can 
be regarded as relatively static . Hypothetically , a LEO satel ‐
lite moving horizontally to the left at a speed vsat relative to UT 
is equivalent to UT moving to the right at the same speed rela ‐
tive to beam cells . We further adopt a cyclic mechanism to 
simplify the periodicity of satellite movement and the simpli ‐
fied satellite movement model is shown in Fig . 2. When the 
UT leaves the rightmost cell N as it moves , it will enter the 
leftmost cell 1. Handover call arrivals , new call arrivals , and 
call termination may constantly occur during the movement .
2.2 Channel Reservation Model for Multi -Priority Service
We assume that there are s types of services , and the num ‐
ber of new calls of the i-th service follows a Poisson distribu ‐
tion with an average arrival rate λi
n. Then the total arrival rate 
of the i-th service is given as the sum of the arrival rates of 
new calls and handover calls as follows :
λi=λi
n+λi
h , (1)
where λi
h is the arrival rate of the i-th service for handover 
calls. Obviously , the handover calls of the i-th service come 
from the previous beam cell and its arrival rate λi
h can be de ‐
rived as follows[5]:
λi
h=λi
n(1-Pi
af)Ph1
1-(1-Pi
hf)Ph2 , (2)
where Ph1, Ph2, Paf and Phf are the handover success probabil ‐
ity of the source cell , that of the target cell , the new call block ‐
ing rate of the i-th service , and the handover call failure rate of the i-th service , respectively .
Besides , we denote the proportion of new calls of i-th ser ‐
vice as pi , and then the arrival rate of the i-th service can be 
expressed as :
λi
n=λn× pi , (3)
where λn is the average arrival rate of total new calls and pi 
satisfies p1+p2+p3+⋅⋅⋅+ps=1. We further assume that 
the duration of all calls obeys an exponential distribution of a 
parameter u, so the average duration of the call is 1/u s.
We adopt a threshold -based channel reservation strategy to 
realize the admission control of satellite beam cells . We con ‐
sider that the available bandwidth in a cell is equally allo ‐
cated to all the channels , and each channel can be assigned to 
a call . Then , each admitted call will be assigned a channel 
with enough power to guarantee the quality of service . In this 
work , we focus on developing an intelligent admission control 
mechanism for LEO satellite communications . Thus , for sim ‐
plifying the analysis , we just assume that there is enough 
power in a cell to guarantee the service quality of each admit ‐
ted call . For a new call or a handover call , if the number of oc ‐
cupied channels in the current beam cell is less than the corre ‐
sponding threshold , the call will be admitted successfully and 
assigned a channel with power and bandwidth resources , and 
the number of occupied channels is updated . Otherwise , the 
call will be blocked . After each decision period , the threshold 
will be updated according to our adjustment algorithm . We set 
a threshold k′i for handover calls of the i-th service , while a 
threshold ki is set for new calls of the  i-th service . As hando ‐
ver calls are prior to new calls[16], we have ki≤k′i. We also 
consider that the s types of services have certain priorities , in 
the way that the type with larger index numbers will be re ‐
served for more channels than those with smaller index num ‐
bers. Therefore , the relationship between thresholds of all ser ‐
vices satisfies 0≤k1≤k′1≤⋅⋅⋅≤ks≤k′s≤C, where C is the 
total number of beam cell channels . To maximize utilization of 
the channels , k′s=C is assumed in our model . Fig. 3 illus ‐
trates the proposed multi -priority service threshold -based 
channel reservation strategy .
The set of all thresholds is denoted by K=
{k1, k′1, k2, k′2,⋯, ks, k′s}. Intuitively , dynamically adjusting the 
thresholds K to control call admission can effectively improve 
the overall system performance . On the one hand , if the low -
priority service threshold is set too low , low -priority service 
calls will be hard to get admission , even if there are no high -
▲Figure 1. Basic mobility scenario of low -earth -orbit (LEO ) satellite 
communication system
▲Figure 2. Simplified mobility model of low -earth -orbit (LEO ) satellite 
communication system▲Figure 3. Illustration of multi -priority service threshold -based chan ‑
nel reservation strategy… …vsatvsat
vsat
Handover call New call End of callvsat
1 2 3… i… N-1 N
0 Ck1ks-1ksk′s-1 k′1… k′s
Relative difference between the thresholds
56