ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3LI Wei , JI Jingkang , LIU Yuanlong , SUN Jiawei , LIN Subin Simulation and Modeling of Common Mode EMI Noise in Planar Transformers   Research Papers
Simulation and Modeling of Common Mode Simulation and Modeling of Common Mode 
EMI Noise in Planar TransformersEMI Noise in Planar Transformers
LI Wei1, JI Jingkang1, LIU Yuanlong1, SUN Jiawei2, 
LIN Subin2
(1. ZTE Corporation , Shenzhen 518057 , China；
 2. Fuzhou University , Fuzhou 350108 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303014
https ://kns .cnki.net/kcms/detail/ 34.1294 .TN.20230810 .1409 .004.html, 
published online August 10, 2023
Manuscript received : 2022 -11-21
Abstract : The transformer is the key circuit component of the common -mode noise current when an isolated converter is working . The high -
frequency characteristics of the transformer have an important influence on the common -mode noise of the converter . Traditionally , the mea ‐
surement method is used for transformer modeling , and a single lumped device is used to establish the transformer model , which cannot be 
predicted in the transformer design stage . Based on the transformer common -mode noise transmission mechanism , this paper derives the 
transformer common -mode equivalent capacitance under ideal conditions . According to the principle of experimental measurement of the net ‐
work analyzer , the electromagnetic field finite element simulation software three -dimensional (3D) modeling and simulation method is used to 
obtain the two -port parameters of the transformer , extract the high -frequency parameters of the transformer , and establish its electromagnetic 
compatibility equivalent circuit model . Finally , an experimental prototype is used to verify the correctness of the model by comparing the ex ‐
perimental measurement results with the simulation prediction results .
Keywords : planar transformer ; electromagnetic compatibility ; common -mode noise ; simulation ; modeling
Citation  (Format 1): LI W , JI J K , LIU Y L , et al . Simulation and modeling of common mode EMI noise in planar transformers [J]. ZTE Com ‐
munications , 2023 , 21(3): 105–116. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303014
Citation  (Format 2): W. Li, J. K. Ji, Y. L. Liu, et al ., “Simulation and modeling of common mode EMI noise in planar transformers ,” ZTE 
Communications , vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 105–116, Jun. 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303014 .
1 Introduction
Isolated power converters are widely used in applications 
that require isolation between the input side and the out ‐
put side . However , due to the high voltage and current 
rate of change when switching devices in the power con ‐
verter are turned on or off , serious electromagnetic interfer ‐
ence (EMI) noise is generated[1]. For converters including iso ‐
lation transformers , the critical path of common -mode noise in ‐
cludes the distributed capacitance between the primary and 
secondary windings of the transformer in addition to the direct -
to-ground coupling capacitance of the voltage trip point[2–4]. 
The transmission mechanism of common mode noise and the 
establishment of an electromagnetic compatibility model are 
of great significance for the analysis and suppression of com ‐
mon mode noise of isolated power converters .
Magnetic components in power converters often occupy a 
large volume . As power converters develop toward high 
power density , traditional wound transformers are gradually 
replaced by planar transformers due to their disadvantages of 
large size and weight . Planar transformers generally use 
multi -layer printed circuit board (PCB) traces as windings . 
The primary and secondary windings are tightly coupled , with low leakage inductance . At the same time , the core 
height is greatly reduced , so that planar transformers have a 
smaller size , which is widely used in isolated converters with 
high power density[5–7]. However , the copper thickness of the 
printed circuit board is limited by the process . In order to im ‐
prove the current capacity , it is necessary to increase the 
width of the planar transformer windings and adopt the 
method of multi -layer parallel wiring , which will greatly in ‐
crease the facing area between the primary and secondary 
windings of the planar transformer , increase the distributed 
capacitance between the windings , and deteriorate the high -
frequency characteristics of the planar transformer[8]. For the 
integrally installed planar transformer , its printed circuit 
board windings and the main circuit share the same PCB , 
and its discrete devices cannot be obtained to evaluate its 
electromagnetic compatibility characteristics . Therefore , the 
relevant parameters of the electromagnetic compatibility 
equivalent circuit model of the planar transformer can be ex ‐
tracted through electromagnetic field simulation software . 
Compared with the traditional wound transformer , the struc ‐
tural parameters of the planar transformer are stable and con ‐
sistent , and it is easy to model in the electromagnetic field fi ‐
nite element simulation software .
105