ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3TANG Yuanqi , ZHANG Huimin , ZHENG Zheng , LI Ping , ZHU Yu Research Papers   Hybrid Architecture and Beamforming Optimization for Millimeter Wave Systems
gorithm based on the positive semi -definite relaxation for the 
PC architecture has been proposed in Ref . [11]. The HBF opti ‐
mization algorithms based on element iteration and MO for the 
PC architecture in the broadband system have also been pro ‐
posed in Ref . [13].
To achieve a good compromise between hardware costs and 
system performance , other fixed hybrid architectures have 
also attracted research attention recently . The authors in Ref . 
[14] proposed a partially -fully connected architecture that 
combines the FC and PC architectures and designed algo ‐
rithms based on continuous interference cancellation and ma ‐
trix factorization . The authors in Ref . [15] designed an alterna ‐
tive minimization algorithm for this architecture . An over ‐
lapped (OL) subarray architecture and a heuristic unified low -
rank sparse recovery algorithm were proposed in Ref . [16]. 
The authors in Ref . [17] proposed a generalized subarray -
connected architecture , and developed a successive interfer ‐
ence cancellation -based HBF algorithm along with an exhaus ‐
tive search algorithm to maximize the system energy efficiency .
Since the hardware costs and power consumption of 
switches in mmWave massive MIMO systems are relatively 
small[18–19], the dynamic hybrid architecture becomes a 
promising approach to achieving a better balance between 
hardware costs and system performance . The authors in Ref . 
[20] proposed a greedy algorithm with low complexity to par ‐
tition the antennas over RF chains . A low complexity algo ‐
rithm to design the optimal partition using statistical chan ‐
nel state information was proposed in Ref . [21]. The authors 
in Ref . [22] considered the scenario of ultra -wideband 
mmWave and terahertz frequency band and decomposed the 
precoding problem into multiple subproblems under the FC 
architecture .
In this paper , we investigate the HBF algorithms with differ ‐
ent hybrid architectures for broadband mmWave massive 
MIMO systems , aiming at maximizing the spectral efficiency . 
Based on the equivalence between the spectral efficiency 
maximization (SEM ) problem and the weighted minimum 
mean square error minimization (WMMSE ) problem , we de ‐
sign the beamforming optimization algorithm to directly tackle 
the original SEM optimization problem instead of the conven ‐
tional indirect design approach of approximating the FDBF 
matrix with the HBF matrix . We adopt the alternating minimi ‐
zation method to decompose the joint transmitting and receive ‐
ing HBF optimization problem into two sub -problems . It shows 
that both the digital precoding and combining optimization 
sub -problems have closed -form optimal solutions . To further 
optimize the analog precoder and combiner , we apply the MO 
method to deal with the constant modulus constraint . In con ‐
trast to Ref . [11], where the MO method was applied to solve 
the matrix approximation problem with the objective of mini ‐
mizing the Frobenius norm between the FDBF matrix and the 
HBF matrix of the FC architecture , in our work , the MO 
method is applied to solve the HBF problem with the WMMSE objective and for arbitrary hybrid architectures by introducing 
the Hadamard product of the analog precoder and a connec ‐
tion matrix . Apart from the conventional FC and PC architec ‐
tures , we consider the OL architecture and the PC architec ‐
ture with dynamic subarrays (PC-dynamic architecture ). In 
particular , we simulate three specific types of fixed OL archi ‐
tectures with a uniform planar array (UPA ) and find that our 
proposed HBF optimization algorithm could achieve a compro ‐
mise between hardware costs and system performance com ‐
pared with conventional fixed architectures . Besides , for the 
PC-dynamic architecture , we derive a lower bound of the origi ‐
nal WMMSE objective , based on which , and with some ap ‐
proximations we formulate an eigenvalue maximization prob ‐
lem. Then , we propose a greedy partition algorithm to optimize 
the dynamic partition of subarrays . Simulation results show 
that the PC -dynamic architecture with the proposed dynamic 
partition algorithm can achieve significant performance im ‐
provement over the fixed PC architecture .
We denote matrices and vectors by boldface capitals and 
lower -case letters respectively . (⋅)T and (⋅)H denote the 
transpose and the complex conjugate transpose of a matrix or 
vector , respectively . tr(⋅) and ⋅F represent the trace and 
the Frobenius norm of a matrix , respectively . E[⋅] is the sta ‐
tistical expectation , ⊙ is the Hadamard product of two matri ‐
ces, IN denotes the N×N identity matrix , and CN(0, K) rep‐
resents the circularly symmetric complex Gaussian distribu ‐
tion with zero mean and covariance matrix K.
2 System Model and Problem Formulation
2.1 System Model
In this paper , we consider the downlink of a broadband 
mmWave MIMO -orthogonal frequency division multiplexing 
(OFDM ) system with HBF , as shown in Fig . 1. The transmitter 
first precodes Ns data streams , denoted by the vector 
sk∈CNs×1, and at the k-th subcarrier uses a digital pre ‐
coder  FBB, k∈CNt
RF × Ns, for k=0,…, N-1 with N denoting the 
number of subcarriers . Then , Nt
RF output streams are trans ‐
formed into the time domain by the N-point inverse fast Fou ‐
rier transform . After adding cyclic prefixes (CPs), the signals 
are further precoded by an analog precoder FRF∈CNt×Nt
RF 
composed of a number of phase shifters . It is worth noting that 
in the HBF design for broadband systems , the digital beam ‐
formers can be optimized for different subcarriers , in contrast , 
the analog one is invariant for the whole frequency band and 
thus FRF is not related to the subcarrier index . It is also worth 
noting that FRF can represent different hybrid architectures . In 
particular , we define a connection matrix 
Up∈CNt×Nt
RF,[Up]
ij∈{0,1} to represent the connection strat ‐
egy with any specific hybrid architecture , where [Up]
i,j=1 in‐
dicates that the j-th RF chain is connected to the i-th antenna . 
94