ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3LI Hanwen , BI Ningjing , SHA Jin Design of Raptor -Like LDPC Codes and High Throughput Decoder Towards 100 Gbit/s Throughput    Research Papers
hardware implementation of the decoder has more impact on 
the throughput . Many researchers have proposed different de ‐
coder architectures in the hardware implementation aspect .
In Ref . [8], researchers used a fully parallel decoding 
scheme to partition the global interconnection and weaken the 
routing pressure by grouping the variable nodes . The architec ‐
ture achieves a throughput of 92.8 Gbit/s . A partial parallel 
decoder architecture with multi -frame pipeline decoding is 
proposed in Ref . [9] to increase the parallelism . It can achieve 
higher throughput while having high decoding flexibility . In 
Ref. [10], researchers proposed an iterative unfolding architec ‐
ture, which fully expanded the hardware architecture used for 
one iteration so that one iteration could be performed per 
cycle . This approach lacks flexibility while significantly in ‐
creasing throughput . The multi -core decoder was implemented 
in Ref . [11], which could satisfy high throughput while being 
relatively flexible .
In this paper , we design a new kind of RL -LDPC code aim ‐
ing at next -generation mobile communication and give the 
construction results of the core matrix . A code construction 
algorithm is proposed to optimize the performance of the 
code by eliminating cycles of lengths 6 and 4. In addition , a 
hardware architecture is proposed to match the above codes 
using a multi -core row -layered decoding approach to achieve 
a throughput of 100 Gbit/s . The multi -core decoder mainly 
includes an input buffer , a controller , decoder cores and 
their memory blocks , an output buffer , and an output selec ‐
tion module .
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows . Sec‐
tion 2 introduces the code construction method we proposed . 
Then we describe the hardware architecture in Section 3. In 
Section 4, the performance and hardware resource consump ‐
tion of the code are presented . Finally , the conclusions are 
drawn in Section 5.
2 Codes Construction
2.1 RL -LDPC Codes Construction
LDPC code is determined by an m×n parity check matrix 
H, where one element in the H matrix is much less than zero , 
m represents the number of rows , and n represents the number 
of columns . Each column corresponds to a variable node (VN), 
and each row corresponds to a check node (CN). The informa ‐
tion block length is k=m-n. The elements in the parity 
check matrix H indicate whether there is information ex ‐
change between the VNs and the CNs . The tanner diagram 
can be used to represent the information transmission network 
that connects the CNs and VNs . As shown in  Fig. 1, the 
circles represent the CNs and the squares represent the VNs . 
The structure of starting from one node and making a circle 
along the connection to return to the node is called a “cycle”. 
Short cycles can have a bad effect on performance .
The protograph structure of RL -LDPC is shown  in Fig . 2. HHRC is the core matrix framed in green in Fig . 2, which corre ‐
sponds to the highest code rate of the LDPC code , and HIRC is 
the extension matrix framed in blue in Fig . 2. The sizes are 
marked in the figure . The size of the extension matrix can be 
adjusted according to different code rates . HHRC and HIRC are 
constructed and optimized separately[12]. Matrix B is a square 
matrix with a double diagonal structure and its size is P × P . 
Matrix I is an identity matrix , which corresponds to the vari ‐
able node part of RL -LDPC with a degree of 1.
HHRC consists of a number of elements shown as follows :
HHRC=é
ëê
êê
êêê
êêù
ûú
úú
úúú
úúh1,1h1,2⋯ h1, K+P
h2,1h2,2⋯ h2, K+P
⋮ ⋮ ⋮ ⋮
hP,1hP,2⋯ hP, K+P . (1)
The parity check matrix is obtained by expanding the base 
matrix above by a lifting size Z. Therefore , each element of 
HHRC is replaced by a square matrix of Z×Z. Elements “−1” 
are replaced by the all -zero matrix , while hi,j>0 elements are 
replaced by a circulant matrix , obtained by right shifting the 
identity matrix by hi,j positions . The range of cyclic lifting 
number hi,j is 0 to Z–1.
The method of code construction based on protograph is 
used in this paper . A protograph with a low iterative decoding 
threshold needs to be constructed first , and then the lifting 
numbers are generated to obtain our LDPC code . Following 
▲Figure 1. Tanner graph
▲Figure 2. Structure of raptor -like low -density parity -check (RL -
LDPC ) codev1 v2 v3 vn
…
…
c1 c2 cm
A B O
I EKN
MP: CN
: VN
CN: check node     VN : variable node
87