ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3DING Jianwen , LIU Yao , LIAO Hongjian , SUN Bin , WANG Wei Statistical Model of Path Loss for Railway 5G Marshalling Yard Scenario    Research Papers
The antenna pattern in the near -field area of the base sta ‐
tion has low receiving intensity and large fluctuation , which is 
different from the variation trend of the received power and 
distance of the reference signal outside the near -field area . 
From the antenna pattern of the base station antenna , it can be 
seen that the side lobe gain of the base station antenna fluctu ‐
ates by 10–20 dB. The received power of the reference signal 
will be affected by both the gain of the transmit antenna and 
that of the receive antenna . It is indicated that the path loss 
model in this part of the region no longer follows the logarith ‐
mic fading model[14].
The path loss model divides the antenna coverage area into 
two parts based on the side lobe and main lobe coverage ar ‐
eas, which are referred to here as Area A and Area B . Segmen ‐
tation is performed with Fresnel zone gaps in Ref . [15]. There 
are three ways to divide the propagation area :
1) The antenna coverage area is divided based on the side 
lobe and main lobe coverage areas , which is the distance of 
the line segment OA in Fig . 1. The distance of OA is given by :
d1=Δh
tan()θ1+θ2
2. (2)
2) The propagation area can be divided based on the center 
position of the main lobe of the antenna pattern , which is the 
distance of the line segment OB in Fig . 1. The distance to OB 
is given by :
d1=Δh
tan(θ1). (3)
3) The propagation area can also be divided according to 
the Fresnel zone gap , and the distance is given by :
d1=4hthr
λ. (4)
3 Path Loss Statistical Modeling for Area A
The marshalling yard scenario tested is somewhat similar to 
the cutting scenario in rail transportation . The railway yard is lo ‐
cated in the middle , with slopes and mountains covered with 
trees on one side and several workshops on the other side . Ac‐
cording to the analysis , the received signal may be affected by 
direct waves , reflected waves , and scattered waves . The test area 
includes three base stations and nine cells . In the measurement , 
the transmitter uses a 5G AAU base station with an antenna gain 
of 24.5 dBi, the receiver uses a PCTEL horizontal omnidirec ‐
tional antenna , and SPARK software is used for data storage and 
visual analysis . We select one of the cells for specific analysis .
An example of a single measurement result of the path loss 
after the antenna gain verification process of 150 cells in the 
marshalling station scenario is shown in Fig . 2. It can be seen from the figure that the path loss in the near -field area of the 
base station fluctuates greatly , which is different from the 
variation trend with a distance of the far -field area . When the 
conditions of 150 cells is substituted , it is calculated that 
OA = 154.64 m, OB = 214.66 m, and the Fresnel zone gap = 
1212 .17 m. From the actual test results in Fig . 2, it can be 
concluded that the boundary points in Definition (2) can better 
represent the boundary points of Area A and Area B , and the 
conclusions of other cells are similar . To sum up , Point B is di ‐
vided as the breakpoint of the propagation area , and the mod ‐
els built in subsequent segmentation are based on this .
Due to the presence of a large number of metal products in 
the marshalling yard scenario , the influence of the reflection 
path in the near -field area is difficult to ignore . By contrasting 
the accuracy of the two -path model and the logarithmic fading 
model in Area A , we make statistics based on the path loss 
prediction error e(i) of the sample points in each cell . The cal ‐
culation formula of e(i) is given by :
e(i)=PLmeasure(i)-PLpredict(i), (5)
where i denotes the cell sample point number , PLmeasure(i) is 
the i-th measured data sample , and PLpredict(i) defines the i-th 
predicted data sample .
Under the same conditions , probability statistics are per ‐
formed based on e(i) of the path loss results predicted by the 
logarithmic fading model and the two -path model in the test 
cell of Area A . The corresponding cumulative distribution 
function (CDF) results are shown in Fig . 3. The average pre ‐
diction error of the two -path model is 2.80 dB, and the stan ‐
dard deviation is 7.24 dB. The average prediction error of the 
logarithmic fading model is 4.75 dB, and the standard devia ‐
tion is 8.26 dB. At the same time , it can be seen from Fig . 3 
that in Area A , compared with the logarithmic fading model , 
the average prediction error of the two -path model is smaller 
and the change is more stable , which is more consistent with 
the actual measured data . Therefore , according to the calcula ‐
tion results , it can be concluded that in the marshalling station 
▲Figure 2. Path loss of 150 cells of the marshalling stationTest point path loss
Free space propagation model
Distance/m0   100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900Path loss/dB120
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
119