ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3XIE Xinyu , WU Yongpeng , YUAN Zhifeng , MA Yihua Research Papers   Massive Unsourced Random Access Under Carrier Frequency Offset
multiple -input and multiple -output (MIMO ) technology pro ‐
vides high spatial resolution within the same time/frequency 
resource to increase spectral efficiency . Different from addi ‐
tive white Gaussian noise (AWGN ) channels , it requires chan ‐
nel estimation for detection under MIMO fading channels , 
forming URA a joint AD and CE (JADCE ) problem that is con ‐
sidered as a multiple measurement vector (MMV ) problem and 
solved by CS algorithms like approximate message passing 
(AMP )[4]. Leveraging channel structural sparsity in the virtual 
angular domain , Ref. [5] presented a performance gain by per ‐
forming AD at the spatial domain and CE at the angular do ‐
main . Promoting the CCS -based URA to the massive MIMO 
scenario , the work of Ref . [10] introduced a covariance -based 
paradigm and proposed a maximum likelihood decoder esti ‐
mating large -scale fading coefficients (LSFCs ) for AD . Ref . 
[11] further promoted the case of independent and identically 
distributed (i.i.d.) channels considered in Ref . [10] to the case 
of correlated channels . Leveraging the rich spatial information 
reserved in multiple antennas , Refs . [12–14] captured the 
strong similarity/correlation between slot -wise user channels 
and proposed uncoupled URA transmission schemes . In Refs . 
[13] and [14], the authors considered the angular domain 
MIMO channel and proposed an expectation -maximization -
aided generalized approximate message passing algorithm 
with a Markov random field support structure (EM -MRF -
GAMP ) for JADCE . The similar statistics of slot -wise channels 
of each user couple the split message fragments , which elimi ‐
nates the need for redundancies to improve the coding rate . 
Accordingly , message stitching takes on the form of a cluster ‐
ing decoder , recognizing slot -distributed channels of each ac ‐
tive user based on similarity . Eliminating the need for redun ‐
dancies in CCS , the uncoupled URA schemes[12–14] achieve 
higher coding rates and spectral efficiency .
Unfortunately , all the above works consider an ideal sce ‐
nario where users are perfectly synchronized with the BS . 
However , caused by the mismatch between the carrier frequen ‐
cies of the local oscillators at users and the BS , carrier fre ‐
quency offset (CFO) inevitably exists . CFO corrupts the phase 
of channel measurements and imposes significant contamina ‐
tion on the JADCE results . Few works in the context of mas ‐
sive access address the issue of CFO estimation . In Ref . [15], 
the authors adopted a Lasso -based method for CFO estima ‐
tion, but only focused on the AD results . The authors of Ref . 
[16] introduced a CS method for JADCE under CFO in the 
framework of orthogonal frequency division multiple access 
(OFDMA ). The key idea is to expand the measurement matrix 
with a finite number of discrete frequency offsets sampled in 
the possible region . The JADCE problem as a generalized 
MMV problem with structured sparsity is then solved by the 
proposed structured -GAMP algorithm . However , the CFO esti ‐
mation in Ref . [16] is discrete , and the measurement matrix 
size will increase accordingly in URA applications , resulting 
in greater computational complexity . To our knowledge , no ex ‐isting work has discussed URA under CFO .
In this paper , confronted with the issue of CFO , we formu ‐
late URA as a JADCE problem with a bilinear signal detection 
structure . We consider the MIMO channel in the angular do ‐
main to promote the sparsity of the CS problem . A novel CS al ‐
gorithm termed Markov -chain -aided parametric bilinear gener ‐
alized approximate message passing (MC -PBiGAMP ) is pro ‐
posed for JADCE , which captures the clustered sparsity struc ‐
ture of the angular domain channel . An uncoupled transmis ‐
sion design for URA is then employed to reduce system com ‐
plexity . With messages divided for slotted emitting , data list 
reconstruction is conducted in the form of a clustering decoder 
leveraging unique channel statistics . Simulation results show 
that the proposed method outperforms state -of-the-art ap ‐
proaches in terms of JADCE and reaches reliable URA system 
performance .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows . The URA sys ‐
tem model is given in the next section . In Section 3, the MC -
PBiGAMP algorithm is proposed for JADCE under CFO . 
Then , the uncoupled URA transmission design of low com ‐
plexity is discussed in Section 4. Numerical results are pre ‐
sented in Section 5, followed by concluding remarks drawn in 
Section 6. Throughout this paper , the j-th column and i-th row 
of matrix X are denoted by xj and xi,:, respectively , and the 
(i, j)-th entry of X is represented by xi,j ; (∙)T, (∙)*, and (∙)H 
stand for the conjugate , transpose , and conjugate transpose , re‐
spectively . Denote x the Euclid norm of vector x, and ∙2 
and ∙F represent the the l2-norm and the Frobenius norm , re‐
spectively . For an integer X>0, the shorthand notation [X] 
stands for the set {1,2,⋯, X}. Finally , CN(x;x̂, μx) signifies 
the complex Gaussian distribution of a random variable x with 
mean x̂ and variance μx.
2 System Model
In this paper , we consider an uplink transmission scenario 
where Ka active users communicate to a single BS equipped 
with a uniform linear array (ULA ) of M half -wavelength 
spaced antennas . The channel h͂
k∈CM between the k-th user 
and the BS is described on a geometric basis as[5]
h͂
k=ρk∑l=1Lgk,le(θk,l), (1)
where ρk is the LSFC which follows the standard Log -distance 
path loss model as log10ρk=-128.1-37.6log10(Dk) with dis ‐
tance Dk measured in km , gk,l~CN(0, 1) is the complex path 
gain of the l-th path , θk,l∈[-π/2, π/2] is the angle of arrival 
(AOA ), and e(θk, l) is given by
e(θk, l)=1
M[1, e-jπsinθk,l,⋯, e-jπ(M-1)sinθk,l]T
. (2)
The spatial domain channel can be transformed to the angu ‐
46