ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3ZHU Yuting , LI Zeng , ZHANG Hongtao Robust Beamforming Under Channel Prediction Errors for Time -Varying MIMO System   Research Papers
Robust Beamforming Under Channel Robust Beamforming Under Channel 
Prediction Errors for Prediction Errors for 
TimeTime --Varying MIMO SystemVarying MIMO System
ZHU Yuting1, LI Zeng2,3, ZHANG Hongtao1
(1. Key Lab of Universal Wireless Communications , Ministry of Educa ⁃
tion of China , Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications , Bei⁃
jing 100876 , China ;
 2. ZTE Corporation , Shenzhen 518057 , China ;
 3. State Key Laboratory of Mobile Network and Mobile Multimedia 
Technology , Shenzhen 518055 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303011
https ://link .cnki.net/urlid/ 34.1294 .TN.20230830 .1912 .007, published online 
August 31, 2023
Manuscript received : 2022 -12-23
Abstract : The accuracy of acquired channel state information (CSI) for beamforming design is essential for achievable performance in 
multiple -input multiple -output (MIMO ) systems . However , in a high -speed moving scene with time -division duplex (TDD ) mode , the acquired 
CSI depending on the channel reciprocity is inevitably outdated , leading to outdated beamforming design and then performance degradation . 
In this paper , a robust beamforming design under channel prediction errors is proposed for a time -varying MIMO system to combat the degra ‐
dation further , based on the channel prediction technique . Specifically , the statistical characteristics of historical channel prediction errors 
are exploited and modeled . Moreover , to deal with random error terms , deterministic equivalents are adopted to further explore potential beam ‐
forming gain through the statistical information and ultimately derive the robust design aiming at maximizing weighted sum -rate performance . 
Simulation results show that the proposed beamforming design can maintain outperformance during the downlink transmission time even 
when channels vary fast , compared with the traditional beamforming design .
Keywords : time -varying channels ; time -division duplex ; robust beamforming ; channel prediction errors ; weighted sum -rate maximization
Citation  (Format 1): ZHU Y T , LI Z , ZHANG H T . Robust beamforming under channel prediction errors for time -varying MIMO system [J]. 
ZTE Communications , 2023 , 21(3): 77–85. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303011
Citation  (Format 2): Y. T. Zhu, Z. Li, and H . T. Zhang , “Robust beamforming under channel prediction errors for time -varying MIMO system ,” 
ZTE Communications , vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 77–85, Sept . 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303011 .
1 Introduction
The rapid growth of intelligent devices and applications 
generates large demands for high data rate transmis ‐
sion. Massive multiple -input multiple -output (MIMO ) 
technique , as a key technology in the fifth generation 
of wireless networks , provides huge potential capacity gain by 
employing multiple antennas and exploiting the extra degree 
of freedom without extending the extra bandwidth[1]. The 
achievable performance heavily relies on the exploitation of 
spatial multiplexing gain , as well as enough channel knowl ‐
edge of the base station[2]. The former is tightly related to 
multi -user MIMO (MU -MIMO ) communications and appropri ‐
ate beamforming design to enhance the intended signal and 
suppress unintended interference . As to the latter , in a time -
division duplex (TDD ) mode , the strategy used to obtain chan ‐nel state information (CSI) is reciprocity , where the transmitter 
uses uplink (UL) channel information to speculate the down ‐
link (DL) channel state in the next transmission interval[3]. 
However , this strategy cannot face the channel aging problem , 
especially in a high -mobility environment where the channel 
characteristic is varying fast during the transmission period , 
which leads to a serious impact on the performance of beam ‐
forming in the MIMO system .
Traditional beamforming algorithms , such as classic zero -
forcing (ZF) and weighted minimum mean -squared -error 
(WMMSE ), actually work well only when accurate and instan ‐
taneous CSI is obtained . Note that the WMMSE precoder[4–5] 
is designed according to the sum -rate maximization criterion 
so it performs better than ZF . In the time -varying TDD system , 
the channel estimation for multiple users is based on their 
sounding reference signals (SRS), which means we can only 
obtain the accurate CSI of the current SRS transmission time 
slot while cannot measure the channel state of the intermedi ‐
ate DL time slots in the case of a high -speed moving scene . 
This work was supported by the ZTE Industry⁃University⁃Institute Cooper ⁃
ation Funds under Grant No . 2021 ZTE01⁃03.
77