ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3LI Wei , JI Jingkang , LIU Yuanlong , SUN Jiawei , LIN Subin Research Papers   Simulation and Modeling of Common Mode EMI Noise in Planar Transformers
where μ′ is the real permeability and μ″ is the imaginary per ‐
meability . The equivalent series model of the core imped ‐
ance can be expressed as :
Z=jωμN2Ae
le , (30)
where N is the number of turns of the winding , le is the 
equivalent magnetic circuit length , Ae is the cross -sectional 
area of the magnetic core , and ω is the measured angular 
frequency .
Substituting Eq . (29) into Eq . (30), we can get :
Z=jω(μ′-jμ″)N2Ae
le  . (31)
Comparing Eqs . (28) and (31), we can get the real and 
imaginary parts of the complex permeability of the magnetic 
core as follows :
μ′=Lsle
N2Ae,
(32)
μ″=Rsle
ωN2Ae.
(33)
The core loss tangent is :
tan(θ)=μ″
μ′.(34)
In order to verify that the complex permeability obtained 
by the experimental measurement can truly represent the 
core parameters of the actual sample in the finite element 
simulation software , an impedance analyzer is used to extract 
the complex permeability of the magnetic ring in Fig . 11 ac‐
cording to the method in Fig . 10. The impedance anal yzer model is WK 6500 B, the core material of the magnetic ring is 
DMR 96, the measured outer diameter is 25 mm, the inner di ‐
ameter is 15 mm, and the height is 7 mm.
The real and imaginary parts of the complex magnetic per ‐
meability of the magnetic ring obtained by the impedance 
analyzer are shown i n Fig . 12.
4.2 Planar Transformer Simulation Modeling
The measurement of the two -port parameters of the planar 
transformer by the network analyzer is introduced previously . 
According to the measurement results , the impedance curves 
of the leakage inductance , magnetizing inductance and 
equivalent common mode capacitance of the transformer are 
obtained , and the electromagnetic compatibility equivalent 
circuit model of the transformer is established . However , the 
method based on the actual sample measurement of the trans ‐
former cannot realize the prediction of conducted EMI noise 
in the design stage of planar transformer , and the method of 
deriving the equivalent capacitance of common -mode noise 
based on the theory of transformer winding stacked structure 
can only reflect the transmission characteristics of trans ‐
former common -mode noise at low frequency . The electro ‐
magnetic field finite element simulation software HFSS of 
Ansys can simulate the function of the network analyzer , ob‐
tain the two -port Z-parameters of the transformer , and realize 
the extraction of the wide -band parameters of the planar 
transformer without physical objects . At the same time , due 
to the use of a planar transformer , the accuracy and consis ‐
tency of the winding structure parameters are higher than 
those of the traditional manual winding transformer , which is 
conducive to improving the consistency between the simula ‐
tion model and the real thing .
Take the planar transformer of the full -bridge circuit as 
an example . The magnetizing inductance is designed to be 
110 μH, the turn ratio of the primary winding and the sec ‐
ondary winding is 3:1, the number of turns on the primary 
side is 3, and the number of turns on the secondary side is 
1. The core material is DMR 96, the relative permittivity of 
 ▲Figure 11. Actual core samples
▲Figure 12. Real and imaginary parts of core complex permeability ex ‑
tracted by the impedance analyzerFrequency/HzReal part of complex permeability μ'
Imaginary part of complex permeability μ' '
1×1051×1061×1071×108Permeability μr5 000
4 000
3 000
2 000
1 000
0
-1 000
112