ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3CHENG Lei , QIN Shuang , FENG Gang Research Papers   Learning -Based Admission Control for Low -Earth -Orbit Satellite Communication Networks
LearningLearning --Based Admission Control for Based Admission Control for 
LowLow --EarthEarth --Orbit Satellite Communication Orbit Satellite Communication 
NetworksNetworks
CHENG Lei , QIN Shuang , FENG Gang
(University of Electronic Science and Technology of China , Chengdu 
611731 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303008
https ://link .cnki.net/urlid/ 34.1294 .TN.20230830 .1858 .005, published online 
August 31, 2023
Manuscript received : 2022 -07-22
Abstract : Satellite communications has been regarded as an indispensable technology for future mobile networks to provide extremely high 
data rates , ultra -reliability , and ubiquitous coverage . However , the high dynamics caused by the fast movement of low -earth -orbit (LEO) satel ‐
lites bring huge challenges in designing and optimizing satellite communication systems . Especially , admission control , deciding which users 
with diversified service requirements are allowed to access the network with limited resources , is of paramount importance to improve network 
resource utilization and meet the service quality requirements of users . In this paper , we propose a dynamic channel reservation strategy 
based on the Actor -Critic algorithm (AC -DCRS ) to perform intelligent admission control in satellite networks . By carefully designing the long -
term reward function and dynamically adjusting the reserved channel threshold , AC -DCRS reaches a long -run optimal access policy for both 
new calls and handover calls with different service priorities . Numerical results show that our proposed AC -DCRS outperforms traditional 
channel reservation strategies in terms of overall access failure probability , the average call success rate , and channel utilization under vari ‐
ous dynamic traffic conditions .
Keywords : satellite communications ; admission control ; dynamic channel reservation ; actor -critic
Citation  (Format 1): CHENG L , QIN S , FENG G . Learning -based admission control for low -earth -orbit satellite communication networks [J]. 
ZTE Communications , 2023 , 21(3): 54–62. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303008
Citation  (Format 2): L. Cheng , S. Qin, and G . Feng , “Learning -based admission control for low -earth -orbit satellite communication networks ,” 
ZTE Communications , vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 54–62, Sept . 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303008 .
1 Introduction
With the increasing number of users and service 
types in terrestrial wireless communication net ‐
works , it is impractical to provide wireless commu ‐
nication services anytime and anywhere alone[1]. 
The satellite communication network has the prominent advan ‐
tages of long -distance communications , ubiquitous coverage , 
large capacity and high reliability , and can be a complement to 
terrestrial networks . It is not restricted by complex geographic 
conditions and harsh environments and can provide broadband 
multimedia services to user terminals (UT) in any area , even 
where terrestrial network resources are insufficient[2].
Due to the advantages of shorter propagation delay and 
lower operational expenditure , low -earth -orbit (LEO) satellite 
communication systems have been commonly used to provide 
user terminals with full coverage and real -time wireless com ‐munication services[3]. Usually , LEO communication systems 
can exploit multi -beam technology to irradiate lots of blocks of 
cellular networks in their coverage area , which are called 
beam cells . When a UT establishes a communication connec ‐
tion with an LEO satellite , one challenge faced is the frequent 
handover from one beam cell to another , due to the fast move ‐
ment of LEO satellites . If there are insufficient channel re ‐
sources in the targeted beam cell , the connection would be in ‐
terrupted . Frequent handover failure and new call blocking 
would severely degrade the network performance and/or qual ‐
ity of service (QoS) of users . Moreover , with the rapid develop ‐
ment of multimedia applications , diversified service require ‐
ments pose a great challenge to the network[4–6]. On the other 
hand , the satellite channel resources are limited , which usu ‐
ally cannot satisfy the requirements of all services . Consider ‐
ing the diversified service requirements with multi -priority ser ‐
vices , admission control is particularly critical , as it decides 
which services are allowed to be admitted .
A typical solution for admission control of multi -priority ser ‐
This work was supported by the ZTE Industry⁃University⁃Institute Cooper ⁃
ation Funds .
54