ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3REN Min , XU Renyu , ZHU Ting Double Deep Q -Network Decoder Based on EEG Brain -Computer Interface    Special Topic
Double Deep QDouble Deep Q --Network Decoder Based on Network Decoder Based on 
EEG BrainEEG Brain --Computer InterfaceComputer Interface
REN Min , XU Renyu , ZHU Ting
(Southwest Jiaotong University , Chengdu 611756 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303002
https ://link .cnki.net/urlid/ 34.1294 .TN.20230907 .1041 .002, published online 
September 7, 2023
Manuscript received : 2023 -06-08
Abstract : Brain -computer interfaces (BCI) use neural activity as a control signal to enable direct communication between the human brain 
and external devices . The electrical signals generated by the brain are captured through electroencephalogram (EEG ) and translated into neu ‐
ral intentions reflecting the user 􀆳s behavior . Correct decoding of the neural intentions then facilitates the control of external devices . Rein ‐
forcement learning -based BCIs enhance decoders to complete tasks based only on feedback signals (rewards ) from the environment , building 
a general framework for dynamic mapping from neural intentions to actions that adapt to changing environments . However , using traditional 
reinforcement learning methods can have challenges such as the curse of dimensionality and poor generalization . Therefore , in this paper , we 
use deep reinforcement learning to construct decoders for the correct decoding of EEG signals , demonstrate its feasibility through experi ‐
ments , and demonstrate its stronger generalization on motion imaging (MI) EEG data signals with high dynamic characteristics .
Keywords : brain -computer interface (BCI); electroencephalogram (EEG ); deep reinforcement learning (Deep RL ); motion imaging (MI) gen‐
eralizability
Citation  (Format 1): REN M , XU R Y , ZHU T . Double deep Q -network decoder based on EEG brain -computer interface [J]. ZTE Communica ‐
tions , 2023 , 21(3): 3–10. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303002
Citation  (Format 2): M. Ren, R. Y. Xu, and T . Zhu, “Double deep Q -network decoder based on EEG brain -computer interface ,” ZTE Communi ⁃
cations , vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 3–10, Sept . 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202303002 .
1 Introduction
Brain -computer interface (BCI) offers the possibility of 
direct communication between the human brain and 
external devices that perform operational tasks[1]. Re‐
searchers capture the electrical signals generated by 
the brain through the electroencephalogram (EEG ) and con ‐
vert them into neural intentions , which will be correctly de ‐
coded and used to control external devices , such as wheel ‐
chairs , robotic arms , and automatic vehicles[2–4]. Among other 
things , the correct decoding of the neural intention is a crucial 
step toward this goal , and the correct interpretation of brain ac ‐
tivity can provide the external device with the required com ‐
mands so that it can perform expected tasks . Within the differ ‐
ent EEG systems , the motor imagery (MI) BCI[5–6] is a very 
flexible EEG paradigm , which can be used to distinguish be ‐
tween different intracerebral instructions and to control exter ‐
nal devices to execute commands by “what is in mind ”.
Many methods based on traditional machine learning have 
been used for MI decoding and feature extraction . Among 
them , filter bank common spatial patterns (FBCSP )[5, 7] based 
on the characteristics of common spatial patterns (CSP) have 
achieved good performance . And some researchers have inves ‐tigated an improved feature extraction method based on CSP 
to further improve the performance of BCI system[8–9]. In addi ‐
tion, linear discriminant analysis (LDA ), support vector ma ‐
chines (SVM ), etc., are used to find a projection or hyperplane 
to separate different categories by analyzing feature distribu ‐
tion[10–11]. Due to the limited spatial resolution , low signal -to-
noise ratio (SNR), and high dynamic characteristics of MI , as 
well as the existence of a large amount of noise in EEG sig ‐
nals, the extraction of robust features from EEG data is a cru ‐
cial step for the successful implementation of BCI . In recent 
years , the success of deep learning methods has alleviated the 
need for manual feature extraction to a large extent . As a re ‐
sult, many scholars have explored the application of deep 
learning in EEG signals . For example , the multi -layer percep ‐
tron (MLP ) was used to correctly classify EEG signals[12]. 
Since convolutional neural networks (CNNs ) can perceive mul ‐
tiple small domain features with the convolution process pro ‐
ceeding layer by layer and can automatically extract rich fea ‐
tures to obtain a depth representation , many studies have tried 
to use CNNs into BCI to build end -to-end EEG decoding mod ‐
els and achieved good performance[13–14].
Supervised learning is a popular paradigm to implement 
BCI, but it requires an explicit supervised signal to learn . 
03