ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3LI Wei , JI Jingkang , LIU Yuanlong , SUN Jiawei , LIN Subin Simulation and Modeling of Common Mode EMI Noise in Planar Transformers    Research Papers
vs
1m=vD+0.5Δv .(14)
Substituting Eqs . (6)–(8) and Eqs . (11)–(14) into Eq . (9), 
the total induced charge Qall can be expressed as :
Qall=(Cp1s1+Cp2s1+Cp3s1)vBD+
(2Cp1s1+Cp2s1)Δv,(15)
where Cp1s1, Cp2s1, and Cp3s1 are quantitative after the planar 
transformer structure and material are determined , and the 
induced charge Qall can be calculated with only two voltage 
variables vBD and Δv. Qall reflects the induced charge be ‐
tween the primary and secondary windings , and replaces the 
voltage variable Δv with the voltage variables vAD and vBD be‐
tween the primary and secondary windings , as shown in 
Eq. (16).
Δv=vA-vB
3=vAD-vBD
3.(16)
Substituting Eq . (16) into Eq . (15) and eliminating Δv, we 
can get :
Qall=(1
3Cp1s1+2
3Cp2s1+Cp3s1)vBD+(2
3Cp1s1+1
3Cp2s1)vAD.
(17)
Eq. (17) shows that the induced charge Qall is divided into 
two parts , and the induced charge Qall can be reduced to the 
transformer port BD and port AD. Then the expressions of ca ‐
pacitance CBD and CAD are:
CBD=1
3Cp1s1+2
3Cp2s1+Cp3s1,(18)
CAD=2
3Cp1s1+1
3Cp2s1 . (19)
The capacitance CBD between B and D and the capacitance 
CAD between A and D are the equivalent common -mode ca ‐
pacitance of the planar transformer . The sum of the induced 
charges at both ends of the capacitance CBD and CAD is Qall. 
The corresponding two -capacitor models of the transformer 
are shown i n Fig . 5.
3 Electromagnetic Compatibility Equiva ‑
lent Circuit Model of Planar Transformer
The electromagnetic compatibility equivalent circuit 
model of the full -bridge transformer is sh own in Fig . 6. This 
model can not only realize the energy transmission character ‐
istics of the transformer but also reflect its electromagnetic 
compatibility characteristics .Np represents the number of turns of the primary winding , 
Ns the number of turns of the secondary winding , ZLk the 
leakage inductance impedance , ZLm the magnetizing induc ‐
tance impedance , and ZC1 and ZC2 the common mode equiva ‐
lent capacitance impedance . When the frequency is low , ZLk 
and ZLm can be represented by pure inductance , and ZC1 and 
ZC2 can be represented by pure capacitance . However , as the 
frequency increases , the electromagnetic environment inside 
the transformer becomes more and more complex , and the 
electromagnetic compatibility characteristics inside the 
transformer can no longer be represented by the pure induc ‐
tance or pure capacitance model of these four impedance pa ‐
rameters . At the same time , in order to take into account the 
basic circuit functions of transmitting energy , the lumped 
concept is adopted , and the positions of ZLk, ZLm, ZC1, and 
ZC2 are kept unchanged . According to the specific imped ‐
ance curve of the four parameters , a high -order model com ‐
posed of inductance , resistance and capacitance is used to 
represent the electromagnetic compatibility equivalent cir ‐
cuit model of the planar transformer . At the operating fre ‐
quency of the switch tube of the isolated converter , the 
model can realize the energy transfer from the primary side 
to the secondary side , and at the frequency of conducted elec ‐
tromagnetic interference , the model can reflect the electro ‐
magnetic compatibility characteristics of the transformer .
To extract ZC1 and ZC2, it is necessary to simulate the ac ‐
tual working conditions of the planar transformer in the full -
bridge circuit , and to form the same potential distribution on 
▲Figure 5. Two -capacitor model
▲Figure 6. Electromagnetic compatibility equivalent circuit model of 
planar transformerA
BC
D
CBDCAD
A
BC
DZLK
ZLm
ZC2ZC1
NpNs
109