ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3ZHU Zhihao , ZHANG Yueping Research Papers   Differential Quasi -Yagi Antenna and Array
3.1 Linear Arrays
Fig. 7 shows the top views of the two - and four -element E -
plane linear differential quasi -Yagi arrays . The differential 
quasi -Yagi element is the same as the differential quasi -Yagi 
antenna presented in the previous section . The distance be ‐
tween the two adjacent elements is d.
3.2 Coupling Mechanism
The mutual coupling between elements needs to be consid ‐
ered especially in the design of a phased array because strong 
mutual coupling may cause scan blindness . The mutual cou ‐
pling is determined by the transmission coefficient | S21| or |Sdd21| 
of an array . DEAL et al .[7] determined the E -plane mutual cou ‐
pling between two single -ended quasi -Yagi antennas imple ‐
mented on the same substrate to be below –18 dB and , in most 
cases , below –20 dB for the center -to-center spacing equal to 
or greater than the half wavelength at 10 GHz[7]. They also made 
an effort to identify the source of mutual coupling and con ‐
cluded from their measurements of the testing structures that , 
for a 15-mm -array spacing that corresponds to the half wave ‐
length at the central frequency of 10 GHz , mutual coupling is 
almost solely due to coupling through the air[7].
To get a deeper insight into the coupling mechanism , we 
have conducted a simulated study of mutual coupling between 
two single -ended and two differential quasi -Yagi antennas , re‐
spectively . First , we keep the drivers , the substrate , and the 
truncated ground plane but remove all the other building 
blocks . Fig. 8(a) shows the simulated electric field distribution on the top surface of the substrate for the case with one driver 
fed by a lumped port and the other driver matched to a load at ▼Table 1. Single -ended and differential quasi -Yagi antennas
Reference
Ref. [7]
This workBandwidth/%
48
73Gain/dBi
4.6
4.4Efficiency/%
93
94X-pol/dB
−12
−21FBR/dB
12
15
FBR: front -to-back ratio      X -pol: cross -polarization
▲Figure 7. Structures of the E -plane linear differential quasi -Yagi ar ‑
rays of (a) two elements and (b) four elements▲Figure 8. Simulated electric field distributions : (a) only driver , (b) 
driver and director , (c) driver , director and differential coplanar strip 
(CPS ), (d) driver , director , CPS and balun , and (e) driver , director , 
CPS and tapered coupled microstrip line (TCML )d
(a)
(b)d d d
1 2 3 4(b)(a)
(c)
(d)
(e)
40