ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3FENG Bingyi , FENG Mingxiao , WANG Minrui , ZHOU Wengang , LI Houqiang Multi -Agent Hierarchical Graph Attention Reinforcement Learning for Grid -Aware Energy Management    Special Topic
FENG Mingxiao received his BE degree in computer science from University of 
Science and Technology of China in 2017 . Now he is working towards his PhD de ‐
gree with the School of Information Science and Technology , University of Sci ‐
ence and Technology of China . His research interests mainly include deep rein ‐
forcement learning , multi -agent reinforcement learning , and large language model .
WANG Minrui received his BE degree in computer science from Anhui Uni ‐
versity , China in 2020 , and his MS degree from the University of Science and 
Technology of China , in 2023 . His research interests mainly include deep rein ‐
forcement learning , multi -agent reinforcement learning , and machine learning 
for recommendation systems .
ZHOU Wengang received his BE degree in electronic information engineering 
from Wuhan University , China in 2006 , and PhD degree in electronic engineer ‐
ing and information science from the University of Science and Technology of China (USTC ) in 2011 . From September 2011  to September 2013 , he worked as 
a postdoc researcher in Computer Science Department at the University of Tex ‐
as, USA . He is currently a professor at the EEIS Department , USTC . His re ‐
search interests include reinforcement learning , multimedia information retriev ‐
al, and computer vision . In those fields , he has published over 100 papers in 
IEEE/ACM Transactions  and CCF Tier -A International Conferences .
LI Houqiang (lihq@ustc .edu.cn) received his BS , ME, and PhD degrees in 
electronic engineering from University of Science and Technology of China 
(USTC ) in 1992 , 1997 , and 2000 , respectively . He is a professor and the Vice 
Dean of the School of Information Science and Technology , USTC , and the Di ‐
rector of MOE -Microsoft Key Laboratory of Multimedia Computing and Commu ‐
nication . He is a fellow of IEEE . His research interests include deep learning , 
reinforcement learning , image/video coding , image/video analysis , and comput ‐
er vision , etc. He has authored and co -authored over 300 papers in journals and 
conferences , and holds over 60 granted patents .
21