ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3DING Jianwen , LIU Yao , LIAO Hongjian , SUN Bin , WANG Wei Research Papers   Statistical Model of Path Loss for Railway 5G Marshalling Yard Scenario
for the 915 MHz railway yard environment . For the scenarios 
of high -speed railway noise barriers and forests , the channel 
characteristics including delay spread and Doppler spread 
were analyzed based on ray tracing in Ref . [10]. On the basis 
of Ref . [10], the authors utilized multiple antennas for model ‐
ing and supplemented the discussion of received power in Ref . 
[11]. Curved and straight tunnels were measured at 900 MHz  
and 2 100 MHz , and the path loss modeling under train -to-
train (T2T) communication was fitted[12]; Based on ray tracing 
simulation technology , the channel parameters such as path 
loss, delay spread , and Doppler spread under the 5G system 
in the urban rail viaduct scenario were analyzed[13].
The main contributions made in this paper are summarized 
as follows .
Considering the influence of the main lobe and side lobe of 
the directional antenna pattern of a base station , two methods 
of dividing the propagation area are proposed : one is based on 
the side lobe and main lobe coverage area division , and the 
other is based on the center of the main lobe of the antenna 
pattern . And the above two methods were compared with the 
Fresnel band gap division method .
Based on the field strength data measured in the actual mar ‐
shalling yard scene , the above -mentioned conjecture of the di ‐
vision of the propagation area is verified , and a large -scale fad ‐
ing empirical model is established . The radio wave propagation 
area is divided into Area A and Area B for segmental modeling .
It is concluded that the path loss model of Area A is similar 
to the two -path model , and that of Area B is consistent with 
the traditional empirical model of large -scale fading .
Combined with the Hata model , the relationship between 
the correction factor and the antenna height of the base station 
in the marshalling station scenario is fitted . Then we propose a 
correction factor for Area B and establish an empirical model 
about this area .
2 Data Preprocessing
2.1 Antenna Gain Check
The effects of the main lobe and side lobes of the antenna 
pattern should be taken into account to build an accurate path 
loss model . By verifying the antenna gain of the original data 
samples , the application scope of the model can be expanded 
effectively . Firstly , we verify the original measurement data to 
obtain the received power of the reference signal at the test 
point . The path loss of the test point is given by
PL(d)=Pt-Pr(d)+G(d, θ1)-Lloss, (1)
where Pt defines the reference signal transmitting power , 
Pr(d) is the test point reference signal received power , Lloss 
denotes the feeder and its connection loss in the test system , 
and G(d, θ1) expresses the vertical gain sum of the transmit ‐
ting and receiving antennas of the base station .
The horizontal beam of the transmitting antenna we adopted is wide , and the receiving antenna is a horizontal omnidirec ‐
tional antenna . The antennas are linear coverage in the sce ‐
nario of a marshalling yard . It can be approximately consid ‐
ered that the gain of the transmitting and receiving antennas is 
invariable on the horizontal plane . Therefore , only the vertical 
antenna pattern is considered and the horizontal is irrespec ‐
tive in this paper .
Result PL(d) obtained after antenna gain verification is the 
sum of path loss and shadow fading . Relative to the transmitting 
antenna , the receiving antenna moves slowly and the shadow fad ‐
ing has less effect on the overall results . Therefore , a large -scale 
path loss model is built based on the results obtained through an ‐
tenna gain verification in the following work of this paper .
2.2 Radio W ave Propagation Area Division
The base station antennas generally used in the construc ‐
tion of rail transit wireless communication systems are high -
gain directional antennas . Directional antennas are character ‐
ized by a small coverage angle , strong directivity , and a large 
signal gap between the main lobe and the side lobe . Fig. 1 is a 
2D schematic diagram of a directional antenna system , where 
θ1 denotes the downtilt angle of the base station antenna , tak‐
ing into account both mechanical downtilt and electrical down ‐
tilt, and θ2 denotes the 3 dB lobe width of the base station an ‐
tenna in the vertical direction .
In Fig . 1，Point O represents the location of the base station 
tower , Point A represents the position of the vertical side lobe 
edge of antenna , and Point B represents the center position of 
the vertical main lobe of antenna . In other words , the direction 
of the base station antenna pointing to Point B is the main ra ‐
diation direction of the antenna , which indicates the direction 
with the largest gain in the antenna pattern . Generally , the 
gain of the directional antenna pattern is large and uniform in 
the main lobe , while the gain in the side lobes is small and 
fluctuates greatly . The main lobe and side lobes will have a 
great impact on the received power . The antenna pattern of the 
transceiver antenna should be considered as a whole to ensure 
accurate results .
▲Figure 1. 2D schematic diagram of directional antenna systemPoint Oθ1
θ2
Point APoint B
118