ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3GAO Yang Special Topic   Reinforcement Learning and Intelligent Decision
agent hierarchical graph attention reinforcement learning can 
well manage the grid energies and significantly reduce voltage 
violation numbers .
The third paper , titled “A Practical Reinforcement Learn ‐
ing Framework for Automatic Radar Detection ,” studies radar 
detection in a data driven way . Noting that manual adjustment 
in radar detection is time and money expensive , the authors in 
this work propose automatically achieving radar detection with 
the combination of offline RL and meta RL . The proposed 
method can reduce real -world interaction complexity and en ‐
able fast adaptation to new environments . Empirical results in ‐
dicate the high efficiency of RL -based radar detection .
The fourth paper , titled “Boundary Data Augmentation for 
Offline Reinforcement Learning ,” investigates the fundamen ‐
tal issue in offline RL . Theoretically , offline RL can boost data 
efficiency . However , the existence of distribution shift results 
in unreliable value estimation , and this makes it difficult to 
construct offline RL algorithms in risk sensitive scenarios . To 
address these concerns , this work proposes the use of genera ‐
tive adversarial nets to augment the dataset and calibrate the 
confidence in value estimation . The experimental results show 
the great potential of generative modeling for improving offline 
RL performance .
In summary , we hope this special issue will accelerate the 
scientific investigation of applicable RL in more general 
decision -making or optimization scenarios . The articles in this 
special issue are not only innovative but also provide precious experimental evidence and practical experience in the field . 
These contributed works bring more insights into algorithm de ‐
sign, bottleneck circumventing , and real -world deployment of 
deep RL and will facilitate the development of deep RL . Last 
but not least , we sincerely express our gratitude to all authors , 
reviewers , and the editorial board , who have made efforts to 
the success of this special issue .
Biography
GAO Yang  received his PhD degree from the Department of Computer Science 
and Technology , Nanjing University , China in 2000 . He is currently a professor 
with the Department of Computer Science and Technology , Nanjing University , 
and is the Executive Vice President of the National Institute of Healthcare Big 
Data at Nanjing University . He leads the artificial intelligence reasoning and 
learning team of Nanjing University which was selected as the Outstanding Sci ‐
ence and Technology Innovation Team of Jiangsu Province ’s Higher Education 
Institutions in 2019 . He is the fellow of CAAI . His research interests include ar ‐
tificial intelligence and machine learning , especially multi -agent systems and 
reinforcement learning . He has published more than 200 papers in top confer ‐
ences and journals in and outside China . He have more than 20 authorized pat ‐
ents. He translated two books : One is Statistical Reinforcement Learning ; the 
other is Algorithm Perspective of Machine Learning , and edited one book en ‐
titled Distributed Artificial Intelligence . He received the second prize of the Ji ‐
angsu Provincial Science and Technology Award once , the second prize of the 
Wu Wenjun Natural Science Award of the Chinese Artificial Intelligence Soci ‐
ety once , and the Research Achievement Award of the Multi Agent System Pro ‐
fessional Group of the Chinese Computer Society once .
02