Fig. 1. Expanding 
the capabilities of 
5G-Advanced 
based on six major 
scenarios.with operators to undertake extensive 
deployments.
Deterministic Capability: 
Empowering 5G Penetration into 
Core Production Areas with Bounded 
Latency
The digitization transformation of 
vertical industries empowered by 5G has 
achieved signi/f_icant results, entering a 
critical period of large-scale replication in 
the application management domain. The 
next step involves further development 
and penetration into the core production 
domain. Deterministic capability is the 
primary challenge, and ZTE addresses 
this by providing extreme determinism 
with a low latency of 4 ms at 99.999% 
reliability and µs-level ultra-low jitter. It also 
oﬀers gigabit-per-second or higher uplink 
capacity. ZTE achieves the integration of 
communication and computing through the 
base station computing engine NodeEngine 
and communication-computing-in-one  
UniEngine, thereby creating a full-stack 
5G industrial /f_ield network solution. This 
enables /f_lexible deployment of cloud-based of concurrent XR services, empowering 
new industries such as smart game 
viewing, cultural tourism, and gaming with 
immersive experiences, all without the 
need for backpacks.
Massive IoT: Seamless Connectivity 
Across High, Medium, and Low-Speed 
Scenarios
The Internet of things (IoT) demands 
seamless interconnection across various 
IoT technologies to meet industry-wide 
needs of digitization transformation. The 
industry has basically formed a coordinated 
development pattern for NB-IoT, 4G, and 5G 
networks. In the early stage, the high cost 
of 5G modules and terminals somewhat 
constrained the large-scale deployment of 
5G applications. To address this challenge, 
5G-Advanced introduces the lightweight 5G 
IoT reduced capability (RedCap), achieving 
cost and power reductions in terminals 
through capability trimming, thereby 
strengthening the IoT network foundation. 
ZTE has been committed to promoting the 
commercial deployment and accelerating 
the application of RedCap, collaborating 
 
 
 
 
 
eMBB
mMTC uRLLCIntegrated sensing
and communication
Massive  IoTDeterminisitic
capability Universal
intelligenceSeamless 10 Gbps+
Ubiquitous
connectivity 5G-Advanced Special Topic 
 12