5G-Advanced. It supports autonomous 
network (improving O&M eﬃciency), 
promotes green development (intelligent 
energy savings), and facilitates business 
intelligence operations (stimulating B2C 
traﬃc and ensuring B2B determinism). ZTE 
realizes intrinsic intelligence in wireless 
networks within a single domain through 
an end-to-end intelligent architecture 
encompassing the physical network 
layer, intelligent service layer, and 
scenario application layer. This provides 
operators and partners with support for 
cross-domain closed-loop, collaboration, 
and orchestration. By combining 
intent-driven, foundation models, digital 
twins, and other advanced technologies, 
ZTE achieves intelligent management 
and empowerment throughout the entire 
lifecycle and all-scenario services of wireless 
networks. 
ZTE continues to advance its commitment 
to intelligence by pioneering the DeepEdge 
solution. This innovative solution, utilizing 
intrinsic intelligence in base stations, enables 
precise identi/f_ication and diﬀerentiated 
assurance for over 16,000 service types. This 
dual enhancement signi/f_icantly improves user perception and cell traﬃc. ZTE has also 
successfully implemented the industry’s /f_irst 
high-speed rail precise planning innovation 
solution based on digital twins in Tianjin, 
supporting more accurate visual network 
planning through higher-precision twinning 
modeling, and facilitating engineering 
optimization in the planning stage. At the 
2023 World Internet Conference Wuzhen 
Summit, ZTE employed an AI foundation 
model assurance assistant for on-site 
assurance, achieving a 5-fold eﬃciency 
improvement compared to traditional 
methods.
As a key stage in the evolution from 5G to 
6G, 5G-Advanced will build upon current 5G 
achievements. Focused on six major scenarios 
including seamless 10 Gbps+, massive IoT, 
deterministic capability, integrated sensing 
and communication, ubiquitous connectivity 
and universal intelligence, 5G-Advanced will 
continually enhance capabilities, explore 
new business opportunities, and expand its 
scope. These six scenarios will also seamlessly 
transition to the subsequent 6G network, 
laying a solid foundation and conducting 
innovative experiments for the evolution 
to 6G.
 
5G-Advanced Special Topic 
14 