station modi/f_ication will enable all base 
stations at 16 crossroads within one square 
kilometer to provide V2X services.
Paving the Way for Future 
Applications
With this groundbreaking, ultra-reliable 
network guarantee as the cornerstone, 
combined with cutting edge high-precision 
roadside perception and a digital-twin 
cloud control platform, autonomous 
vehicles will gain access to comprehensive 
and reliable V2X information. Lidars, 4D 
imaging radars, high-de/f_inition cameras, 
and other sensors are equipped on the 
traﬃc light stand for real-time, 
beyond-line-of-sight perception. The cloud 
control platform is a massive data source 
that can provide perceptual data for 
autonomous driving companies to facilitate 
better vehicle perception, prediction and 
planning. It is estimated that if every 
crossroad in Suzhou is connected to the 
platform, 198 PB of data will be generated 
per day, equivalent to the daily amount of 
data collected by 290,000 autonomous vehicles using on-board sensors. 
Automobile companies can also purchase 
this data to develop and deliver their own 
driver assistance services, thereby 
enhancing their core competitiveness. 
Moreover, the platform can serve as an 
overall monitoring center that inspects 
conditions of vehicles and roadside 
equipment, enabling the government to 
enhance road eﬃciency through trend 
prediction and congestion optimization. 
Currently, the ultra-reliable 5G network 
guarantee has been trialed in the pilot 
intelligent road area spanning 162 
kilometers, where L2 vehicles can achieve 
L4 autonomous driving services solely 
through roadside sensing and reliable 5G 
transmission, without the need for onboard 
sensors. Three Robobus lines have also 
been commercialized on the 5G intelligent 
road. The self-driving bus is empowered 
and operated with real-time roadside 
perception data and is remotely monitored 
by the cloud control platform. There is no 
bus driver behind the steering wheel of the 
L4 Robobus, only a safety supervisor who 
awaits nearby in case of any unforeseen 
emergencies. Additionally, over 1,000 
self-driving vehicles from more than 20 
automobile companies are connected to 
the system for real time supervision, both in 
the technology park and on the intelligent 
road. These vehicles include RoboBus, 
RoboTaxi, automated delivery, sweeper, 
patrol, sightseeing shuttle, truck, and 
retail cart.
With more than 3.1 million 5G base 
stations in China, a solid foundation has 
been established for the future rollout and 
large-scale commercialization of the 
integrated 5G vehicle-road-cloud system. 
Looking ahead, the ultra-reliable network is 
poised to enhance the autonomous driving 
capabilities of diverse automated 
applications, ultimately bringing an 
improved and more intelligent urban 
lifestyle to people.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5G-Advanced Special Topic
32 