he global 5G network is 
advancing steadily. By the end of 
September 2023, 300 operators 
in 114 countries and regions
had launched commercial 5G networks based 
on 3GPP standards. 290 operators in 1 13 
countries and territories had either launched 
or soft-launched 5G mobile services. As 
of Q3 2023, the total number of 5G base 
stations deployed worldwide had exceeded 
4.81 million, with an addition of 330,000 
in the quarter and a cumulative increase 
of 1.17 million for the year. This represents 
a year-on-year growth of 56.17% and a 
quarter-on-quarter growth of 7.3%. At the 
same time, driven by new technologies and 
business scenarios, the boundaries of wireless 
communication are continually expanding. 
5G development is accelerating towards the 
new stage of 5G-Advanced, serving as the 
intermediate stage in the evolution towards 
6G. 5G-Advanced is not only the cornerstone 
of 5G application development in the next 
decade but also the key to shaping the future 
digital society.
ZTE expands and evolves the 
technological capabilities of 5G-Advanced 
based on six major scenarios: seamless 10 Gbps+, Massive IoT, deterministic 
capability, integrated sensing and 
communication, ubiquitous connectivity, 
and universal intelligence (Fig. 1). It aims 
to deliver value in three key areas of 
5G-Advanced: B2C (consumer-oriented) for 
a smart digital life, connecting virtual and 
real worlds; B2B (business-oriented) to build 
a smart digital industry, penetrating the 
production domain; B2X (society-oriented) 
to solidify a smart digital society, expanding 
the new economy of connected vehicles 
and low-altitude satellites.  We will analyze 
the capabilities and value of 5G-Advanced 
based on these six scenarios, as well as 
introduce ZTE’s accumulated expertise and 
practice in each scenario.
Seamless 10 Gbps+: Ubiquitous Wide 
Bandwidth, Enhanced Experience, 
and Scenario Expansion
The network is the foundation of all 
applications. Emerging business forms 
 
 
 
Deputy General 
Manager of RAN 
Products, ZTELiu Shuang
Solution Director of 
RAN Products, ZTENi Yanzi
ZTE Opens New Horizons 
of 5G-Advanced
T
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5G-Advanced Special Topic
10 