Senior Expert of China 
Telecom Shanghai BranchLu Heng
RAN Product Planning 
Manager, ZTEMao Sihui
RAN Product Planning 
Director, ZTEFan Yingying5G-Advanced Powered Smart 
Metro: Empowering Passenger 
Services and Metro O&M
n a city, ensuring residents a high-quality 
living experience and a convenient, 
healthy living environment is crucial. 
The development of urban
transportation plays a key role. Metro 
commuting oﬀers an eﬃcient and low-carbon 
choice amid escalating traﬃc congestion. The 
metro lines in Shanghai are approximately 
936.17 km, with an average daily capacity of 
about 13 million passengers, ranking /f_irst in 
the world. The average commuting time on 
Shanghai metro is over 40 minutes, and 
passengers need stable and reliable Internet 
connections for social and entertainment. 
However, 5G network coverage on metro is 
less than 20%, and the actual network 
demand of passengers has been suppressed. 
In such a densely populated situation, 
translating passenger traﬃc into value 
creation is not only a critical challenge, but 
also a valuable opportunity to enhance the 
urban economy. 
ZTE and China Telecom unveil a 
groundbreaking 5G-Advanced powered 
smart metro solution for Shanghai Metro Line 
4. Since April 2023, the 34-kilometer Line 4 has been commercially deployed with this 
solution, handling 0.98 million daily 
passengers. ZTE introduces an industry-/f_irst 
5G indoor solution with BBU + pRRU two-level 
architecture inside metro carriages. Additionally, 
5G-Advanced AAUs are deployed in tunnels, 
achieving “high-speed backhaul” with up to 
15 Gbps downlink and 2 Gbps uplink. This 
ensures extremely large bandwidth and high 
transmission capacity, providing passengers 
with a seamless and reliable 5G network for 
an enjoyable journey. 
For metro operation, ensuring tunnel 
security is crucial. Previously, manual checks 
took three hours daily to eliminate potential 
risks and hazards in tunnel. Millimeter-wave 
technology’s high backhaul capacity enables 
real-time transmission of operating 
information from platforms and carriages to 
the metro control system. Pattern recognition 
and object detection can replace over 80% of 
daily manual checks for platforms, 
pantographs (electricity transfer from 
catenary to locomotive), and railways. This 
solution brings signi/f_icant bene/f_its to users, 
mobile operators, and metro operations. 
 
 
 
I
 
 
 
 
 33FEB 2024