Introduction to Low-altitude 
Economy
ow-altitude airspace typically refers to 
the airspace within 1,000 meters from 
the ground, and it may extend to 3,000 
meters based on diﬀerent regional 
characteristics and actual needs. Low-altitude 
airspace has gradually transformed from a natural 
resource into an economic resource. In the past, 
although low-altitude airspace was accessible, 
human entry was infrequent due to many 
restrictions, and conventional methods to mark, 
measure, and plan physical space were not 
applicable. With the rapid development of 
sensing, communication, positioning, digital and 
intelligence technologies, low-altitude airspace 
can now be fully digitized into computable 
airspace. Under the framework of computable 
airspace, intelligent machines can quickly process 
complex data, making large-scale low-altitude 
activities possible, thereby creating huge 
low-altitude economic value.
The development and expansion of 
low-altitude airspace has not only signi/f_icantly 
reduced the ground traﬃc pressure, but also 
created a new industrial space with broader 
applications and prospects. The low-altitude 
economy, driven by urban air transportation, 
drone distribution and logistics, urban drone 
applications, and consumer and industrial drone 
applications, has witnessed rapid growth, and is 
poised to foster a variety of innovative 
applications on a scale comparable to, or even 
exceeding, that of the traditional transport industry. This will rede/f_ine the paradigm of work and 
life, creating a new low-altitude industry ecosystem 
that includes low-altitude manufacturing, 
low-altitude operation, low-altitude protection and 
comprehensive services. 
Bolstered by the market and policies, China's 
low-altitude economy has developed rapidly. 
Notably, China secures a leading position in the 
global civilian drone market, accounting for 70% 
of the global market. The low-altitude economy is 
predicted to  contribute 3 –5 trillion yuan to 
China’s economy by 2025. It is becoming a new 
economic growth opportunity for both China and 
the world.
ZTE’s Integrated Sensing and 
Communication Solution
Despite its broad prospects, the low-altitude 
economy faces the challenge of insuﬃcient support 
capabilities in low-altitude communication, sensing, 
navigation, making eﬀective control and /f_light 
services diﬃcult.
For low-altitude communications, given the 
enhanced intelligence of low-altitude aircraft, there 
is a need for higher bandwidth communication to 
support a wider range of /f_light data.
For low-altitude sensing, the signal quality of 
satellite navigation (such as Beidou Satellite and 
GPS) is unstable due to the obstruction of buildings 
in urban environments. Traditional ground radar has 
high deployment costs and lacks the networking 
capability. Communication base stations or other 
auxiliary facilities are needed to improve the 
accuracy of perception and positioning.
 
ZTE’s Integrated Sensing and 
Communication Solution Helps 
Low-altitude Economy Take Oﬀ
L
RAN Solution 
Manager, ZTEHai Zhenkun
Chief Engineer of RAN 
Product Planning, ZTEZhao Zhiyong5G-Advanced Special Topic 
20 