programmable logic controllers (PLC) and 
other production-line-level applications, 
supporting the deep integration of 5G 
into core industrial production processes. 
Currently, the deterministic capability of 5G 
has been veri/f_ied in various scenarios, such 
as steelmaking, manufacturing, empowering 
the transformation and upgrading of 
intelligent production.
Integrated Sensing and 
Communication: Paving the Way for 
New business Opportunities
5G-Advanced breaks communication 
boundaries, enhancing sensing capabilities 
with a single station sensing range 
exceeding 1 km and sensing accuracy 
reaching sub-meter level. Based on the 
integrated capabilities of communication, 
sensing, and computing power, 
5G-Advanced empowers new digital 
social economies, such as vehicle-road 
coordination and low-altitude services. 
ZTE continues to lead in communication 
and sensing integration trials and exploration 
in various scenarios. It has achieved 
several industry /f_irsts: the /f_irst to achieve 
communication and sensing integration of a 
single AAU, and the /f_irst integrated sensing 
and communication (ISAC ) networking test, 
veri/f_ing the sensing capability from single-site 
to multi-site networking. In the V2X scenario, 
ZTE completed the industry's /f_irst 5G-based 
communication-sensing-computing-in-one 
V2X architecture trial in Zhuhai. This trial 
successfully enabled real-time warnings 
for blind spots through the entire Uu 
interface. Moreover, it created the industry’s 
/f_irst 5G ultra-stable network in Suzhou, 
supporting the construction of a 5G 
vehicle-road-cloud integrated autonomous 
driving technology experience route. In 
the low-altitude scenario, ZTE completed 
the industry's /f_irst trial of a "5G based 
communication-sensing-computing-control 
integration" low-altitude unmanned aerial vehicle route in Shenzhen. It also realized the 
application trial of low-altitude unmanned 
aerial vehicle management based on the 
communication and sensing integrated AAU 
in the Hangzhou Asian Games Village.
Ubiquitous Connectivity: 
Converging Satellite and Terrestrial 
Networks for True Connectivity 
Everywhere
Ubiquitous connectivity, a key goal 
of 5G-Advanced, is realized through 
non-terrestrial network (NTN), an innovative 
satellite communication technology. By 
leveraging satellite coverage, NTN integrates 
with mobile communication standards 
for connectivity across air, space, sea, and 
land. This allows smartphones and IoT 
devices to directly connect to satellites, 
supporting applications such as emergency 
communication and wide-area IoT, and 
ushering in the era of “consumer-grade” 
satellite communication. 
ZTE, in collaboration with industry 
partners, has conducted successful technical 
trials and commercial applications. These 
include the /f_irst domestic /f_ield trial of 5G 
NTN mobile phones connecting directly to 
satellites, the /f_irst domestic laboratory trial 
of NR-NTN low-orbit satellite broadband 
services, and the /f_irst 5G NTN test in marine 
areas. Real-time service trials in marine 
and uninhabited island scenarios, covering 
aspects like water quality monitoring, 
temperature and humidity monitoring, and 
emergency rescue, have been completed. 
These achievements have laid a solid 
foundation for the commercialization of 
5G NTN.
Universal Intelligence: Comprehensive 
Smart Solutions Enhancing Quality, 
Eﬃciency, and Innovation Integration
Universal intelligence has become a 
vital core capability in the new stage of 
 
 
 
 
 FEB 2024
13 