s the /f_irst release of 5G-Advanced, 
Release-18 has ushered in the 
5G-Advanced era. The 3GPP 
standardization on physical layer 
design was /f_inished in August 2023, and the 
ASN.1 will be frozen in June 2024, by which all 
speci/f_ications will be stable and ready for 
implementation.
Release-19, with the initial package 
approved in December 2023, has commenced 
exploration into 6G technology. Targeting 
completion by the end of 2025, it aims to 
serve as a bridge to 6G.
Release-18: Initiating 5G-Advanced Era
RAN Part
For RAN, 26 study items or work items h ave 
been completed in R18, with 3 of them 
enabling intelligence or eﬃciency, 9 
supporting verticals, and 14 enhancing 
network coverage and capacity.
eSmall data transmission:  As a WI led by 
ZTE, in Rel-18, mobile terminated small data 
transmissions are supported with the 
completion of the MT-SDT WI. For DL, 
MT-SDT (i.e., DL-triggered small data) oﬀers 
similar bene/f_its as MO-SDT, such as 
reducing signaling overhead and UE power 
consumption by avoiding unnecessary 
transitions to RRC_CONNECTED and 
reducing latency by allowing fast 
transmission of small and infrequent packets, e.g. for positioning.
Network controlled repeaters:  This work 
item, which is also led by ZTE, speci/f_ies the 
signaling and behavior for side control 
information (i.e., beam-forming, UL-DL TDD 
operation, and ON-OFF information), 
control plane signaling and procedures, 
and solutions for network-controlled 
repeater management.
Extended reality (XR): XR Awareness, 
power saving enhancements and capacity 
enhancements have been speci/f_ied in this 
work item. For XR awareness, one 
additional buﬀer size table, a new MAC CE 
for delay status report (DSR) of buﬀered 
data, and reporting of uplink assistance 
information (jitter range, burst arrival time, 
UL data burst periodicity) per QoS /f_low 
have been introduced to enhance uplink 
resource scheduling by NG-RAN. For power 
saving enhancements, the gNB may 
con/f_igure a DRX cycle expressed in rational 
numbers to match the periodicities of video 
frame rates. In addition, con/f_igured grants 
may be set without the need for the UE to 
monitor possible UL retransmissions, thus 
increasing power savings for the UE. For 
capacity enhancements, con/f_igured 
grant-based PUSCH transmissions are 
enhanced with support of multiple CG 
PUSCH transmission occasions within a 
single period of a CG con/f_iguration. 
Moreover, indications of unused CG PUSCH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A
5G-Advanced: 
Bridging to 6G
Wang Xinhui   ZTE Vice President and Head of Standardization & Industry Relations Expert View
06 