Ultimately, the communication, navigation, 
sensing (CNS) requirements of low-altitude 
applications can be met.
ZTE’s Eﬀorts in Verifying Integrated 
Sensing and Communication 
ZTE has been actively exploring and 
applying ISAC.
In May 2023, ZTE completed the industry's /f_irst 
5G “integrated sensing, computation, control 
and communication" low-altitude drone route 
veri/f_ication  in Shenzhen with the industry's 
/f_irst monostatic mode ISAC AAU prototype. 
The system can detect drones with an area as 
small as 0.01 square meters, and achieve a 
sub-meter sensing accuracy, a sensing 
distance of more than 1 km, and a detection 
accuracy of more than 99%.
In September 2023, in order to facilitate 
low-altitude security inspection during the 19th 
Asian Games held in Hangzhou, ZTE carried out 
the application veri/f_ication of a single ISAC AAU 
device to achieve low-altitude drone control in 
the Asian Games Village. The AAU can sense the 
/f_light trajectory of a drone in real time and alert 
when the drone approaches a warning area, 
thereby greatly ensuring the low-altitude safety 
of the Asian Games.
In October 2023, ZTE completed the industry's 
/f_irst 5G-A ISAC networking veri/f_ication test, 
marking a transition from single-point technical 
veri/f_ication to multi-station regional 
networking applications. This represents a 
critical step in exploring low-altitude security 
assurance and expanding the capacity of 
communicating networks.
Moving forward, ZTE will continue to work with 
industry partners to explore the potential 
capabilities of “communication+perception+N 
technology” , conduct system experiments, build 
end-to-end capabilities, and enhance the 
integration of multiple 5G-A technologies and the 
maturity of related industry chains, creating 
unlimited possibilities for social development and 
industry upgrading.
 
For low-altitude navigation, high-frequency and 
high-density low-altitude activities require a more 
digital and re/f_ined aircraft navigation mode. This 
requires not only the support of communication 
facilities, but also the exploration and use of new 
technical means, such as computer vision, for 
positioning and navigation.
5G-Advanced will continue to enhance 
network performance in terms of coverage, 
capacity, and user experience. More importantly, 
it will enhance the business value of 5G networks. 
ZTE's integrated sensing and communication 
(ISAC) solution extends the business scope of the 
5G network from communication into sensing. As 
one of the important innovative technologies for 
monetizing the 5G network, it enables the 5G base 
station to serve as the digital infrastructure of the 
low-altitude economy, providing capabilities such 
as real-time broadband communications, precise 
sensing, positioning and sensing data calculation.
First, ZTE achieves network coverage in 
low-altitude areas by using technologies such 
as large-scale antenna arrays. Leveraging the 
networking characteristics of base stations, 
ZTE provides high-speed and reliable 
communication networks with stable, 
continuous, seamless coverage for 
low-altitude areas.
Second, ZTE leads the industry with the 
implementation of the monostatic sensing 
mode AAU. Compared with the bistatic sensing 
mode, monostatic sensing mode is more /f_lexible 
and convenient for base station networking. The 
introduction of ISAC enables 5G base stations to 
detect the position, speed, trajectory of 
low-altitude drones, thereby enabling the 5G 
network to provide capabilities such as 
positioning, navigation, and trajectory tracking 
alongside low-altitude communications.
Moreover, the computing power provided by the 
industry's unique NodeEngine computing power 
base station can realize sensing data calculation, 
encompassing sensing calculation, target 
recognition, trajectory prediction, monitoring 
control and video processing. Through capability 
openness, sensory data can be shared with a 
low-altitude management platform. 
 FEB 2024
 21