/f_irst end-to-end XR evaluation system based on 
digital twins, providing intelligent multi-target 
optimization results for network planning and 
optimization. The XR rendering based on 
computing power at base stations minimizes 
latency, and the terminal energy-saving solution 
mitigates heat generated in XR devices, improving 
user comfort during wear. 
Intelligent Identi/f_ication: Base Station-Level 
Service Identi/f_ication Database
The XR industry is undergoing signi/f_icant 
growth and development, with a robust 
demand for XR applications across various 
sectors. However, the wide range of services 
and diverse features pose challenges in 
standardizing requirements for mobile 
networks. ZTE has a unique advantage in the 
industry with base station-level deep packet 
inspection (DPI) capabilities, enabling the identi/f_ication of 16,000 types of services (apps) 
and oﬀering targeted guarantees for diﬀerent 
XR services.
Intelligent Scheduling: Self-Learning Features 
of XR to Improve Eﬃciency
Once diﬀerent XR data /f_lows are identi/f_ied, 
ensuring the reliability of each speci/f_ic XR 
service becomes crucial. An intelligent 
scheduling policy can help to reduce waiting 
delays in XR services. The XR video source 
coding algorithm follows a quasi-periodic rule, 
for example, transmitting one frame of data 
packet every 8.33 ms for a 120 fps video. The 
next-generation base station (gNodeB) 
automatically learns the periodic features of 
diﬀerent XR data /f_lows and matches them with 
eﬃcient scheduling policies, eﬀectively 
reducing delay and jitter in XR services.
Multi-User Anti-Congestion Scheme: User 
Experience Fully Guaranteed in Large-Capacity 
Scenarios
Video data packets typically consist of I 
frames and P frames. An I frame encompasses all 
the image information, making it considerably 
larger than a P frame, which only contains 
supplementary information. In high-capacity 
scenarios where I frames are indispensable, 
simultaneous requests for XR service from 
multiple users can lead to I frame collisions and 
immediate congestion at the base station. This, 
in turn, results in delayed XR services and a 
subpar user experience. To address this issue, 
the X-Edge solution employs an anti-congestion 
policy, strategically staggering service traﬃc 
periods to prevent congestion. The outcomes 
indicate a signi/f_icant reduction in collision 
probability, speci/f_ically by a factor of 10, 
translating to a 10-fold decrease in the 
probability of video stalling.
XR Evaluation System: Accelerating Industry 
Chain Growth
Built upon a diﬀerentiated guarantee for XR 
services, ZTE has established an end-to-end XR 
evaluation system. Leveraging digital twins, it 
5G-Advanced Special Topic 
 16