to stop there. Our purpose of empowering 
Indonesia starts with connecting, and then 
we want to be a part of their journey. For 
instance, in rural areas or cities, if they need 
micro lending, we help them through our 
partner. If they need other solutions for small 
and medium enterprises, we strive to provide 
plug-and-play options to help them earn $10. 
If they earn $10 through our support, for sure 
they will give us $2. That is the approach we 
are taking.
Another big piece of digital Indonesia is skill 
development. Without skill development, 
there is a shortage of close to 10 million skilled 
digital talents. Through our CSR initiative, 
Indosat Ooredoo Hutchison Digital Camp, we 
have developed more than 250,000 digital 
talents. We believe that every dollar spent on 
technology needs to be backed up with 
money spent on skill development. Again, we 
can't do it alone. We keep encouraging all our 
partners to come in.  
How does ZTE contribute to Indosat’s 
digital transformation journey?
ZTE has been one of the fastest-growing 
partners in my ecosystem. When I arrived in 
Indonesia in 2019, they had some small piece. 
Their big entry came with IP . They were the 
/f_irst to deploy SRv6. We are very happy with 
their performance. They also help us on 
DWDM and transport. Most importantly, I see 
that ZTE now is more focused on customer 
experience because that is paramount for us. 
The most important thing is how we can 
deliver the best customer experience, and we 
cannot do it without our partners. 
How are you doing in the aspect of 
the transition from Telco to TechCo?
In the /f_irst two years after the merger, our 
focus was on getting the integration right and 
enhancing the customer experience. Now, we 
feel that we have the skills and are in a good 
shape to move to the TechCo journey. Our TechCo journey has /f_ive pillars. 
The /f_irst pillar is the purpose of 
empowering Indonesia. Another signi/f_icant 
aspect is the creation of an innovation stack. 
That innovation stack is not about 
conducting R&D but about working with 
like-minded partners to solve real problems. 
We have put aside some budgets on trying 
products and solutions that help solve real 
problems. Our approach with partners, 
known as “Gotong Royong” in Indonesia, is 
all about collaboration. We have our/uni00A0Indosat 
Marvelous Xperience Center in Jakarta, 
where ZTE is a key partner showcasing a lot 
of use cases. The whole principle is 
innovation and co-creation to solve real 
challenges. We are fast-tracking this culture, 
and we have seen some good results.  
Moving forward, what are your 
priorities, and what can we look 
forward to in Indosat's future?
The top priority is to continue growing our 
core business. We believe that if we perform 
well in our core business, we can achieve 
much more in adjacent revenues. We want to 
record close to double-digit growth in our 
core business in both ToC and ToB. A key thing 
in 2024 will be more investments in the rural 
areas. With around $800 million CAPEX 
deployed annually, we want to ensure that at 
least 55 percent of this investment goes to 
rural Indonesia.         
The second priority involves adjacent 
revenue and the transition to TechCo. We 
have started a project called Meranti that 
focuses on three verticals: /f_intech, TechCo, 
and home broadband. We have set an 
ambitious target to increase the adjacent 
revenue, currently only 3 percent of our total 
revenue, to up to 20 percent. This year, we are 
doing around $45 million, and we want to 
take it to $1 billion by 2026. As we get into this 
in/f_inite journey, the real focus will be on 
execution, and that is where we are building 
our capabilities. 
 05 FEB 2024