three-sector-in-one UBRs, providing high 
output power in a single unit. This series 
reduces the number of radios per base 
station from /f_ifteen to just two with the 
introduction of 6TR and 12TR UBRs, 
resulting in signi/f_icant cost savings of up 
to 60% on rental expenses. ZTE also oﬀers 
a unique FDD-TDD-integrated 5G UBR for 
seamless multi-RAT integration, 
enhancing overall eﬃciency.
Signi/f_icant energy savings:  ZTE’s UBR 
series brings substantial energy savings 
with high-eﬃciency technologies. The 
unique RF pooling solution optimizes 
power ampli/f_ier utilization, resulting in 
up to 40% energy savings. The RRU 
hibernation function and AI-based traﬃc 
prediction further contribute to 
additional power reduction. With a 
signi/f_icant reduction in power 
consumption, ZTE’s UBR series helps 
operators minimize costs and build a 
sustainable and eﬃcient network 
infrastructure.
ZTE supports its industry leading UBR 
series through three key technologies.
Unique Super-N power ampli/f_ier 
architecture:  ZTE employs an innovative 
Super-N architecture with a multi-level 
optimal adjustment system, enhancing 
eﬃciency and reducing power 
consumption at multiple levels for 
improved output performance. This results 
in an 8–10 percentage point increase in 
power ampli/f_ier eﬃciency compared to the 
previous generation, leading to a 15–20% 
reduction in total power consumption.
Advanced algorithm:  ZTE develops a 
successful cognitive radio digital 
pre-distortion (CR-DPD) algorithm, reducing 
power fallback for eﬃcient and linear power 
ampli/f_ier operation. This innovation leads to 
lower power consumption and improved 
performance.
Unique RF pooling solutions: Leveraging 
the UBR series, ZTE develops unique RF pooling solutions dynamically adjusting 
output power among sectors to increase 
revenue, save energy, and ensure an 
optimal user experience. Eﬀectively 
managing increased traﬃc, these 
solutions convert it into substantial 
revenue without negatively impacting 
performance or coverage. With a 15–20% 
boost in busy sectors, subscribers enjoy 
an enhanced experience, and operators 
achieve increased power eﬃciency.
In recent projects, over 50,000 
new-generation ZTE’s UBRs have been 
successfully deployed in more than 20 
countries worldwide. Addressing crowded 
conditions in existing tower and pole 
installations, these deployments increase 
output power and capacity in the FDD 
sub-3 GHz range, improving performance 
while signi/f_icantly reducing energy 
consumption. For instance, in one operator’s 
case, where there is a growing demand for 
multi-technology multi-band service and 
traﬃc, tower load eﬃciency and space 
optimization are vital. In high-traﬃc hotspot 
areas, the operator introduces the unique 
tri-band UBR with the industry’s highest 
output power, reducing site footprint by 
two-thirds and power consumption by 50%. 
This leads to signi/f_icant savings in tower space 
and rental expenses. With UBR replacement 
and AI features, the total power eﬃciency 
(GB/KWh) improves by up to 21.6%.
Conclusion
ZTE AAU/UBR series addresses the major 
needs of mobile operators in diﬀerent 
regions. It plays an increasingly important 
role for the vast majority of CSPs, as UBR 
facilitates super cost-eﬀective 4G 
modernization and enhances 5G coverage 
with increased cost-eﬀectiveness. This not 
only addresses the most pressing current 
demands but also provides better solutions 
for future business growth.
 FEB 2024
 29