within the base station, eliminating the need 
for detours to UPF in traditional private 
network services. This signi/f_icantly reduces 
the transmission path, simpli/f_ies the network 
structure, decreases transmission latency, and 
ensures network reliability.
The NodeEngine computing engine 
deployed this time not only supports video 
data identi/f_ication and distribution but also 
incorporates a simpli/f_ied core network function 
known as 5GCCP. This deployment liberates 
the production and broadcasting network 
at the Hangzhou International Expo Center 
from the cumbersome process of remotely 
connecting to the core network required by 
conventional private networks, preventing 
business interruptions caused by link failures. 
Moreover, while NodeEngine identi/f_ies business 
types, it can also analyze the QoS requirements 
through its intelligent algorithm. By deploying 
various scheduling strategies, it ensures 
optimal business QoS performance, greatly 
simplifying operational challenges related to 
card management and network maintenance 
that may arise during the video production and broadcasting process.
The 5G-A network capabilities, characterized 
by large capacity, high reliability and low 
latency, serve as the core driving force behind 
CMG’s UHD shallow compression coding and 
real-time production technology. This meets 
the requirements of 4K video 1:8 (8K video 1:32) 
shallow compression large uplink services and 
virtual co-hosting services. The system operates 
smoothly and reliably for a long time with no 
packet loss, meeting the higher requirements 
of video shallow compression production 
and broadcasting compared to traditional 
deep compression. It requires ultra-large 
uplink bandwidth (4K@50P 1:8, 1.1G), ultra-low 
latency (end-to-end 100 ms), and transmission 
stability (no packet loss during transmission). 
The successful demonstration oﬀers insights 
and reference for the future evolution of 
wireless production and broadcasting studios, 
providing valuable scenario validation for the 
industry.
During the demonstration, the camera 
achieved end-to-end business transmission 
through the encoding and decoding box 
 
Millimeter-wave macro RF unit
Millimeter-wave MiCell RF unit 
Virtual co-hosting video service demo
Virtual co-hosting video service demo
40 Success Stories 