able to integrate people. Do whatever is 
needed if it is diﬃcult, and do it in a fair, 
transparent and timely manner. Over the last 
21 months, 80 percent of my time has been 
spent on culture and people. We always say 
that culture and people are soft aspects but 
they are the real hard aspects. Other things 
will follow if we get these right. 
Another big learning was looking at the 
merger with a maximizing mindset—how we 
can make 1 plus 1 equal 11. Rather than 
focusing only from an optimized synergy 
value, which is my job to deliver, we galvanize 
the whole organization around the idea of 
maximizing. The second principle which 
greatly helped us was prioritizing customer 
experience over cost. Customers care more 
about how their experience improves rather 
than the merger itself. If we can deliver on 
that, they will support us.  
Under your leadership, Indosat has 
achieved a robust /f_inancial 
performance. What is your strategy to 
navigate the fast-paced digital 
landscape?
We are moving from integration towards 
more of a transformation mindset. Now, we 
are looking at all those things from a 
transformation mindset—how we can 
leapfrog and set regional and global benchmarks. Our center of focus is delivering 
marvelous experience, be it for employees, 
customers or even partners. We work very 
closely with partners like ZTE. We have close 
to 900+ vendors, shortlisting 22 as strategic 
partners. Our principle around working with 
partners and solving real problems is really 
something we are excited about.  
Secondly, Indonesia’s digital gross 
merchandise value (GMV) is more than $80 
billion today and will grow to $110 billion by 
2025. We have a role to play there, and that is 
where we believe we cannot do it alone. We 
need a partner ecosystem and that is the 
agenda we are driving. 
In what ways does Indosat accelerate 
Indonesia’s digital transformation?  
Indosat, a 56-year-old brand, was the /f_irst 
company that connected Indonesia to the 
world. The brand is very strong. People in 
small cities and even in villages expect much 
more from Indosat. With our expanded scale 
of 100 million customers, we want to focus 
more on rural areas. There are close to 25 
million /f_irst-time internet users coming from 
rural Indonesia. From an opportunity size 
point of view, it’s like a new Australia getting 
born in rural Indonesia. 
We are investing more to give a good 
network and connectivity, but we don’t want 
04 VIP Voice 