ZTE is dedicated to continuously 
innovating its AAU/RRU solutions for 
wireless networks, with a focus on 
addressing key challenges such as the 
growing demand for large capacity and 
optimal user experience, crowded tower 
space, and a high carbon footprint. ZTE 
AAU/RRU series is well-suited for any CSPs 
modernizing 4G networks and rolling out 
5G networks, with careful consideration of 
the best TCO.
Industry’s First Single Sub-6 GHz
5G Cell Achieves Peak Throughput of 
10 Gbps+       
Over the past four years, since the advent 
of 5G networks, the number of 5G users has 
surpassed 1.2 billion. Both total mobile 
internet traﬃc and monthly average user 
traﬃc (DOU) have doubled. Various video 
applications continue to evolve, 
introducing services like 4K/8K resolution, 
VR/AR, and glasses-free 3D. Existing service 
upgrades and new services impose higher 
demands on network capabilities. 
According to GlobalData’s predictions, 
global network traﬃc is expected to 
increase 3.5 times by 2026 compared to 
2022. The emergence of new high-traﬃc 
services will intensify the demand for 
network throughput, thereby amplifying 
the need for capacity enhancement. 
The introduction of ultra-large-scale 
MIMO, with increased channels and antenna elements in higher sub-6 GHz 
frequencies, is a key research area in 
evolving wireless technologies for 
5G-Advanced and 6G, recognized by 
standardization organizations and 
enterprises. Integrated sensing and 
communication (ISAC) also represents a 
signi/f_icant innovation for 5G-Advanced and 
6G. The industry anticipates incorporating 
higher frequency bands like 4.9 GHz in 
sub-6 GHz for improved sensing accuracy 
with more transceivers.
Coverage enhancement:  The new 
AAU (Fig. 1) has doubled transceivers and 
antenna elements, which enhance 
beamforming capabilities and signi/f_icantly 
improve cell capacity and coverage. The 
128TR AAU boasts 798 antenna elements, 
providing a coverage gain of over 5 dB 
compared to the conventional 64TR AAU 
with a maximum of 192 antenna elements. 
Notably, the vertical scan angle has 
expanded from 12 to 24 degrees, ensuring 
suﬃcient vertical coverage, especially for 
high-rise buildings in densely populated 
urban areas.
Capacity increase: The new AAU 
achieves 32 downlink streams and 24 
uplink streams, doubling spectral 
eﬃciency compared to 64TR without 
relying on protocols or increasing 
uplink/downlink DMRS overhead. This 
results in a doubling of cell peak data rate 
and up to a 40% enhancement in user 
throughputs. 
 
 
 
 
 
Next-Generation Radios: Unprecedented 
Capacity, Simpli/f_ied Site Deployment 
and Superior Energy Eﬃciency
RAN Solution Manager, 
ZTEYang Lisha
RAN Product Planning 
Manager, ZTELi Ting FEB 2024
 27