only in-metro BBU, is the smallest in its 
/f_ield. It perfectly /f_its metro carriages, 
supporting up to 12×100 MHz Massive 
MIMO cells while weighing only half as 
much as a typical BBU. Despite its 
compact size to accommodate limited 
metro space, the slim BBU is powerful 
enough to ensure stable and seamless 5G 
coverage. Moreover, the 5G-Advanced 
AAU supports a 1.6 GHz bandwidth and 
can reach peak rates of up to 28 Gbps 
when used with NR-DC, making it the 
largest backhaul option.
Lower investment and greener operation: 
For Metro Line 4 alone, the number of 5G 
network devices deployed has been reduced 
from 640 to 192, saving approximately $2.1 
million. The energy consumption of the 5G 
network has decreased from 746 Kw to 
169 Kw, representing a remarkable 78% 
reduction. This results in an annual savings of 
3.7 million kWh, enough to power a 
community of 5,000 people for a year.
Empowering Smart Metro 
Operation
This 5G-Advanced powered smart metro 
solution based on 3GPP 5G standards oﬀers 
high security, ultra-low latency (<5 ms), 
high bandwidth, and excellent reliability. 
Providing complete visibility and 
situational awareness of the entire metro 
line, it also integrates communication and 
perception, identifying objects as small as 
20×20×20 (cm /three.numerator). This enhances overall 
security and reliability for completely 
driverless driving.
Inspecting trains, rails and tunnels 
involves risks, such as gaps of up to 100 
meters on both platform and non-platform 
tracks, with water accumulation. All 
inspections must be completed within a 
three-hour window at midnight. Machine 
vision and AI pattern recognition can cut 
down human inspections by 80%, 
enhancing employee safety, improving operating eﬃciency by 30%, and reducing 
night working by 50%.
Unprecedented Metro Experience 
Enhancement
The 5G-Advanced powered smart metro 
solution oﬀers passengers an unparalleled 
gigabit experience, ensuring an enjoyable 
journey. Each metro has a network capacity 
of up to 15 Gbps, suﬃcient for 1800 people 
to watch HD video streams or play cloud 
games simultaneously without any Internet 
slowdown. The peak rate within the metro 
has tripled, reaching 2.1 Gbps from 
600 Mbps, meeting passengers’ daily social 
and entertainment needs. 
The mobile network infrastructure 
enhances user experience for various 
services. In Shanghai, the METRO app 
(available on both IOS and Android) provides 
real-time information on carriage arrival time 
and crowding levels, enabling passengers to 
plan optimal travel routes. After passengers 
disembark, the sub-meter-accuracy 
positioning guides passengers to the 
optimal route via the METRO app when GPS 
is unavailable, whether changing trains or 
exiting the station. 
After the commercial launch on Line 4, 
deployment on Line 9 is underway, with 
plans for expansion to additional metro 
lines in Shanghai. The 5G-Advanced 
powered smart metro solution is applicable 
to at least 70 metro lines in medium- and 
large-sized cities like Beijing, Tsingtao, and 
Hangzhou in China, and aims to extend its 
reach globally.
Digitalization construction forms the 
foundation of a smart metro, focusing on 
safety, performance, comfort and reducing 
operational costs to support long-term, 
sustainable urban growth. ZTE is committed 
to advancing  5G-Advanced innovation in this 
digital economy era through collaboration 
with more industrial partners to create a 
brighter future. 
B a c k h a u l in  tu n n e l
In -m e tro  5 G  c o v e ra g e
 
 
 
 35 FEB 2024