connected to customer premises equipment 
(CPE). Leveraging world-leading 5G-A commercial 
terminals, the CPE supports ultra-large bandwidth 
transmission modes, meeting the transmission 
requirements of nearly 1.1 Gbps for UHD shallow 
compression video uplink. Additionally, 5G-A 
also provides downlink channels for real-time 
demonstrations of low-latency virtual co-hosting 
videos.
As the core equipment for the demonstration, 
the 5G-A CampSite, a minimalist and mobile 
coverage solution jointly launched by China 
Telecom and ZTE, comprises a small cart, an 
equipment cabinet, and the radio frequency 
(RF) part. It serves to establish network coverage 
for temporary needs. The showcased live video 
transmission and processing, a common business 
application, jointly demonstrated by CMG and 
China Telecom, caters to real-time, mobile, 
high-bandwidth, and low-latency scenarios 
in new media. The demonstration utilizes a 
millimeter-wave solution with an 800 MHz 
bandwidth for RF. The CMG booth, equipped with 
the A9825 macro base station, achieves an uplink 
measurement exceeding 2 Gbps and a network 
RTT latency of less than 4 ms, showcasing superb performance. 
In the China Telecom booth, the MiCell 
indoor distributed RF unit demonstrates 
/f_lexible capabilities of RF equipment in diverse 
scenarios. Utilizing industry-leading distributed 
architecture and intermediate frequency 
pooling technology, MiCell is compact, 
lightweight, and versatile for deployment on 
poles, walls, and ceilings. Supporting both 
horizontal and vertical installation, it caters 
to various indoor scenarios. Moreover, MiCell 
employs multi-array antenna technology, 
allowing /f_lexible beam coverage through 
software con/f_iguration, enhancing coverage 
capabilities.
The 5G-A CampSite at the Hangzhou 
International Expo Center signi/f_icantly highlights 
5G-A network capabilities in advancing new 
media technology. It showcases robust network 
capabilities and reliable 5G-A application 
solutions, delivering an excellent UHD experience. 
ZTE, in collaboration with China Telecom and 
CMG, will further promote the development of 
video services using 5G-A technologies, oﬀering 
enhanced business experiences to audiences in 
the future.  
Millimeter-wave macro RF unitMillimeter-wave macro RF unit
Millimeter-wave MiCell RF unit Millimeter-wave MiCell RF unit
Virtual co-hosting video service demo
 41 FEB 2024