XR & media services: To better support XR 
and other media services in the 5G system, 
this work item enhances policy control and 
QoS mechanisms for characteristics like 
multi-modality /f_lows and PDU set handling. 
It also supports 5GS information exposure 
for XR and other media services, and 
provides solutions to meet performance 
requirements for round-trip latency, jitter, 
UE power saving, and the trade-oﬀ 
between QoE and UE power saving.
System support for AI/ML-based 
services: This work item aims to provide 
intelligent transmission support for 
AI/ML-based services at the application 
layer. This enables service providers to 
leverage 5GS as an intelligent platform to 
assist in their AI/ML operations at the 
application layer.
Release-19: Exploring 6G Technology
RAN Part
The initial Rel-19 package has included 16 
study items and work items, with 8 being 
further enhancements of Rel-18 topics and 8 
being new topics.
AI/ML for NG-RAN, air interface and 
mobility: This study item led by ZTE aims 
to investigate new AI/ML based use cases, 
i.e., network slicing and CCO, within 
existing NG-RAN interfaces and 
architecture (including non-split and split 
architectures). This goal is to identify 
enhancements that can support AI/ML 
functionality. Moreover, the study 
involves further discussions on the Rel-18 
leftovers, including mobility optimization 
for NR-DC, split architecture support for 
Rel-18 use cases, energy saving 
enhancements such as energy cost 
prediction, continuous MDT collection 
targeting the same UE across RRC states, 
and multi-hop UE trajectory across gNBs. 
The AL/ML for air interface and mobility 
in NR will also be speci/f_ied in Rel-19. 
Channel modelling enhancements for 7-24GHz:  This study item also led by ZTE 
aims to validate through measurements 
the channel model of TR38.901 within the 
7-24 GHz frequency range. It will adapt 
and extend as necessary the channel 
model of TR38.901 for this frequency 
range, addressing key aspects for 
applicable scenarios such as near-/f_ield 
propagation (ensuring consistency 
between near-/f_ield and far-/f_ield) and 
spatial non-stationarity.
Ambient IoT:  This study targets a further 
assessment at RAN WG-level of ambient IoT, 
a new 3GPP IoT technology suitable for 
deployment in a 3GPP system. Ambient IoT 
relies on ultra-low complexity devices with 
ultra-low power consumption, specially 
designed for very-low-end IoT applications. 
The study will provide clear diﬀerentiation, 
addressing use cases and scenarios that 
cannot be ful/f_illed based on existing 3GPP 
LPWA IoT technology, such as NB-IoT, even 
when considering reduced peak Tx power.
CN Part
The initial Rel-19 package has included 15 
study items, comprising 8 further 
enhancements of Rel-18 topics and 7 
new topics.
UPF enhancement for exposure and SBA 
phase 2:  The study item led by ZTE aims to 
address R18 leftovers to enhance UPF 
capabilities for exposure and achieve better 
integration of UPF into 5GC SBA. The 
speci/f_ic objectives include supporting 
selection of UPF for user plane 
functionalities, optimizing the procedures 
related to UPF data collection, e.g., 
direct/indirect subscription of UPF via 
control plane from application, and 
enhancing the interface between AF and 
5GC to permit UPF handling of headers 
(e.g., detection of IP header, http header, 
etc), uplink and downlink, as well as 
reporting/noti/f_ications.
Architecture support of ambient 
power-enabled IoT:  This study item aims to 
 
 
 Expert View
08 