With rich experience in the telecom 
industry across diﬀerent countries, 
what key changes have you observed 
in the sector? 
Having been in the industry for two 
decades, I think COVID has been a silver lining 
for the industry. It made not only us but also 
policy makers and governments realize the 
importance of the whole industry when it 
comes to working, studying or even getting 
entertained from home. For me, that was a 
complete turning point.
What COVID has done is that customers are 
seeking a better experience rather than a 
cheap product. Data, which is our core 
connectivity, is not just a consumption. Even 
during times of in/f_lation, our industry is least 
impacted because data is primary, helping 
both B2C and B2B customers do a lot of 
productive work at a fraction of the cost. For 
example, ride-hailing drivers in Indonesia 
who spend $5 per month are my high ARPU 
customers, compared to the average 
customer spending $2.5. That $5 per month 
helps them earn $500, making it a primary 
necessity rather than a mere consumption. 
Similarly, if you look at SMEs, the moment 
when COVID happened, they realized that 
they had to go online and do business. The 
role of the telecom industry, along with 
partners like ZTE, has come to the forefront. 
The challenge is how to grow our core 
business while also building adjacent 
revenues. Telcos like us want to transition 
from being a pure Telco to being a TechCo. 
Indosat aspires to be an AI-native TechCo, 
and we see the importance of IoT and data in 
achieving this. Leveraging data with proper 
AI allows us to do a lot of things such as 
enhancing security for both our enterprise 
and B2C customers. We are getting more 
serious with these areas, and we want to do 
it with partners. We strongly believe that the 
next decade is all about collaboration to 
solve real problems. This is the in/f_inite 
journey we are on. Consolidation is also a big trend. As a 
newly combined operator, how do 
you plan to project the Indosat image 
in Indonesia?
I think this is a very good question. You are 
right because our business is CAPEX intensive. 
What was happening was that with 
governments and policymakers 
understanding the important role of the 
telecom industry, it was getting very 
important for the telecom industry to be 
more sustainable. Consolidation is a move 
towards sustainable growth and it bene/f_its 
everyone.  
Our case is a clear case study. When our 
merger happened on January 4th, 2022, I was 
asked a lot of questions by analysts and 
investors, and even rating agencies had put us 
on negative watch. I don’t blame them 
because historically, most of the in-country 
mergers struggle in the /f_irst two years. We 
started the journey by saying that this merger 
is good for the country /f_irst, and good for our 
customers and our shareholders. 
I’m happy to share with you that we are 
heading towards one of the most successful 
mergers and the numbers speak for 
themselves. Our market cap, which was $2.3 
billion when the merger happened, is over $5 
billion today. We now have 100 million 
customers, and we have seen the bene/f_it for 
our customers. 
My message to the industry is the role we 
play is very important. It is very important that 
we work closely with partners and 
government agencies on carving out a path in 
this digital era, where infrastructure is data.
What operations & management 
philosophy have you brought 
to Indosat? 
The biggest learning I have had is about 
culture and people. When integrating two 
diﬀerent sets of culture, you need to decide 
how to set a culture and ensure that you are 
 03 FEB 2024