study the architecture support of ambient 
power-enabled IoT devices. The speci/f_ic 
objectives include validating the device’s 
ID, managing identi/f_ication, subscription, 
registration and connection of ambient IoT 
devices, and supporting information 
transfer for ambient IoT services.
Energy eﬃciency and energy saving: This 
study item aims to study architectural 
impacts and functional extensions 
required to facilitate eﬃcient energy use 
and energy saving. The speci/f_ic objectives 
include exposing information related to 
network energy, and implementing 
subscription and policy control to support 
energy eﬃciency and energy saving as 
service criteria.
Core network enhanced support for 
AI/ML: This study item aims to study 
possible architectural and functional 
extensions for cross-domain AI/ML 
interworking and coordination (e.g., UE, 
RAN, core, applications) to address the 
overall AI/ML framework. It will investigate 
how to support collaborative AI/ML 
operations, involving 5GC/NWDAF and/or AF for vertical federated learning (VFL), and 
how to support NWDAF-assisted policy 
control to prevent signaling storms.
IMT-2030 has de/f_ined six usage scenarios 
for 6G, including three extensions from 
traditional ones: hyper reliable and 
low-latency communication, massive 
communication, and immersive 
communication, and three new ones: AI and 
communication, integrated sensing and 
communication, and ubiquitous 
connectivity (Fig. 1).
With some study items and work items in 
Rel-18 and Rel-19, it is evident that some 
pre-research on 6G has been initiated in 
5G-Advanced. For instance, NTN aims to 
provide ubiquitous connectivity, ambient 
IoT supports massive communication, 
AI/ML for NR-RAN explores AI and 
communication, and XR enhancement 
focuses on immersive communication. 
Consequently, it can be asserted that 
5G-Advanced is establishing a bridge to 6G, 
facilitating the sustainable digitization and 
intelligence of the entire world.Fig. 1. Usage scenarios 
of IMT-2030.
FEB 2024 
 09