CMG Achieves UHD Shallow 
Compression Coding and Real-Time 
Production with 5G-A CampSite 
ltra-low latency and ultra-large 
bandwidth are crucial for the 
new media industry’s real-time 
production of ultra-high de/f_inition 
(UHD) shallow compression video services. 
Wired transmission is conventionally used 
but proves inconvenient due to cost, network 
construction, and event response challenges. 
At the Hangzhou International Expo Center, 
China Telecom and ZTE introduced a 5G-A 
CampSite, establishing a wireless UHD shallow 
compression coding and real-time production 
system for China Media Group (CMG). This 
system can provide virtual co-hosting video 
service applications with ultra-low latency and 
ultra-large bandwidth based on JPEG-XS shallow 
compression. The service demonstration at the 
expo center received high praise from China 
Telecom and CMG leaders, showcasing ZTE’s 
robust technical capabilities and agile market 
responsiveness.
The 5G-A CampSite uses millimeter-wave frequencies with large bandwidth and low 
latency characteristics for the air interface 
technology to upload and download video 
data. It utilizes ZTE’s innovative NodeEngine, 
the industry’s /f_irst base station with/uni00A0 built-in 
computing engine, to identify and distribute 
video data. The data is then oﬄoaded 
separately to CMG and China Telecom’s local 
data networks, ensuring seamless connectivity 
between their exhibition booths. A local 
video server merges and composites real-time 
videos, transmitting them back to on-site 
screens through the CampSite’s air interface. 
This achieves the continuity and display of the 
entire broadcast, allowing hosts from diﬀerent 
booths to appear on the same screen and 
interact. Additionally, real-time video merging 
avoids the use of traditional green background 
solutions, enhancing versatility in various 
environments for practical live broadcasting. 
The NodeEngine, as the built-in computing 
engine, adopts a direct oﬄoading solution 
 U
RAN Product Planning 
Director, ZTERen Jie
 39 FEB 2024