manages customer data locally in data centers 
located in each country. The data centers are fully 
Tier 3 or Tier 4 certi/f_ied, meet ISO 27001 Cyber 
Security requirements, and are managed by top 
local talent with Oracle, Microsoft, or VMWare 
certi/f_ications. 
VEON AdTech respects stringent privacy 
policies and complies with local data privacy rules, 
requirements of local Central Banks and Ministries 
of Communication, and customer Terms and 
Conditions (T&C). Customers are fully informed 
about the T&C and can opt out of VEON 
communication at any time. 
VEON AdTech also adheres to the highest 
ethical standards and ensures that only business 
scenarios that meet VEON’s ethics standards are 
 
 
who visit Samarkand Darvoza every day, the 
largest demographic group was men between 26 
and 35, and the most popular visiting time 
was 9 pm.  The anonymized data also revealed 
that 20% of people visited the shopping center 
only to go to the food court. According to Shokir 
Mirsaidov, Commercial Director of Samarkand 
Darvoza Shopping and Entertainment Centre, the 
geo-analytics provided valuable insights into its 
customers: “We wanted to understand the 
behavior,/uni00A0 number and composition of people 
visiting our shopping visitors. The analysis we 
received gave us a clear understanding of the 
demographics of our customers, but also told us 
about the people who were not visiting.”
VEON AdTech also enables advertisers to send 
personalized and targeted 
communication messages to 
potential customers, based on their 
interests and behavior. The service 
also protects consumers from 
informational pollution through  
accurate targeting of interests and 
with easy opt-outs. A countrywide 
pizza chain in Uzbekistan worked 
with VEON AdTech to target 
speci/f_ic demographics for a 
precision marketing campaign. 
“The targeted communications not 
only brought about a 73% increase 
in app traﬃc, but also exceeded our 
expectations by driving a 58% 
boost in sales,” stated Sergey Kim, 
Development Director of Dodo 
Pizza chain in Uzbekistan. 
How do you ensure your 
service delivers in a secure 
and trustworthy manner?
VEON AdTech complies with 
international business standards to 
ensure consistency, security, and 
scalability. It follows the IAB 
standards and obeys the ICC 
marketing code. 
VEON AdTech stores and 
The number of people who visit 
the shopping center  per day
04 VIP Voice 