national SPN backbone networks, ZTE is committed 
to enhancing the end-to-end /f_ine-granularity private 
line technologies for cross-domain SPN networks to 
achieve full private line coverage throughout the 
entire network. The FGU-based SPN 2.0 private line 
transport solution is shown in Fig. 1. 
Private Networks Empowering 
Industrial Digitalization
With the development of new infrastructure like 
5G, industrial private networks have evolved from 
single-service private networks to integrated service 
private networks and virtual private networks. At 
present, the demands for private networks driving 
industrial digital transformation mainly include 
highly reliable and secure communication in the 
production /f_ield, broadband connection for 
production aid, interconnection of cloud-based 
applications, and manageable & controllable 
networks. 
Traditional SDH/OTN technologies provide highly 
reliable and secure communication but lack 
suﬃcient packet transport capability. Ethernet/IP 
technologies excel in L2/L3 cloud-based 
interconnection but lack the capability of hard isolation crucial for highly reliable communication. 
SPN, which deeply integrates packet and TDM, 
addresses the key demands of new industrial private 
networks by incorporating hard isolation and high 
reliability into the packet architecture.
SPN oﬀers diverse slicing capabilities. FGU-based 
hard isolation slicing meets the low latency and low 
jitter requirements of production services, and delivers 
carrier-class OAM and protection. MTN-based hard 
isolation slicing provides high packet bandwidths to 
meet the requirements of production aid services. 
Packet-based soft isolation slicing supports complete L3 
connection capabilities and  high-precision inband 
OAM to meet the interconnection requirements of 
cloud-based applications. Furthermore, SPN includes 
the transmission network management function, 
supports integrated SDN management and control, and 
features the intelligent management and control 
capability to ensure a controllable and manageable 
network.
Currently, SPN products have been commercially 
deployed in private networks within subway, mine, 
and expressway industries. China Southern Power 
Grid and State Grid are using SPN to carry integrated 
power services, while China’s National Railway 
Administration is considering SPN as the major 
 
SPN 2.0SPN 2.0
 APR 2024
15 