T-SRv6: SPN Computing Network 
Solution for Slicing Transport 
Network
 
omputing networks, curcial for driving 
high-quality digital economy 
development,  are highly favored by 
major telecom operators for their 
promising prospects. Building capabilities centered 
around computing power presents operators with 
vital opportunities for transformation and upgrading, 
as well as reconstructing industrial value ecosystems. 
Slicing packet network (SPN), a key component of 
computing networks, mainly provides /f_lexible access 
to computing services for users. It also oﬀers 
ubiquitous computing power scheduling for 
cloud-edge and edge-edge collaborations, catering 
to diverse computing connectivity needs across 
vertical industries. Additionally, SPN requires 
evolving capabilities in perception and routing 
within computing networks, meeting the needs that 
computing networks evolve to computing-network 
integration.
Currently, computing services in computing 
networks are primarily deployed in 
provincial/regional data centers. Accessing 
computing resources from the metro SPN network 
necessitates coordinated scheduling across multiple 
networks, including the metro SPN network and 
provincial/inter-provincial backbones (such as China 
Mobile’s cloud private network), reach the data 
center. Therefore, SPN needs to support SRv6 
capabilities to achieve interoperability with cloud 
private networks, providing users with end-to-end 
service provisioning and O&M capabilities for 
one-hop SRv6-to-cloud connectivity. As a transport 
network, SPN needs to consider the following factors 
in its evolution to support SRv6:Inheriting transport service features:  When 
accessing computing services on the SPN network, 
the computing connection must have transport 
features, such as bidirectional same path, 
bidirectional delay symmetry, carrier-class 
protection switching, and hard slice isolation 
capabilities.
Encapsulation eﬃciency and forwarding 
performance:  The SPN network should 
minimize additional SRv6 encapsulation 
overhead and associated forwarding 
performance degradation.
Complexity in upgrading the existing network: 
The SPN network should smoothly evolve to 
support SRv6 capabilities, avoiding intricate 
reconstruction and minimizing impact on existing 
services. 
T-SRv6 Solution Overview
ZTE innovatively proposes the transport-segment 
routing IPv6 (T-SRv6) solution, tailored to the diverse 
requirements of computing services and the current 
state of the SPN network, for implementing the SRv6 
technology.
T-SRv6, integrating transport network features, 
deploys nodes at the SPN network edge, enabling 
complete T-SRv6 capability without upgrading 
internal nodes. With minimal upgrades or additions 
to edge nodes, the entire network achieves 
end-to-end SRv6 one-hop cloud computing 
connectivity from metropolitan to provincial 
backbone.
Fig. 1 shows the T-SRv6 solution architecture, 
C
 Transport Product 
Planning Manager, 
ZTEWen Jianzhong

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Slicing Packet Network Special Topic 
22 