Fig. 1. Development 
of the transport 
technology route.
facilitating fast service deployment, stable 
operation, easy troubleshooting, and intelligent 
O&M. Therefore, using the integrated 
management and control architecture to inherit 
and continually evolve the management and 
control capabilities of existing SDH/MSTP is 
reasonable.
Technology Analysis
During the 5G network design phase, the white 
paper “5G Transport Network Architecture and 
Technology Solution” released by the IMT-2020 5G 
transport promotion group in 2018, evaluates three 
5G transport technologies (SPN, IPRAN 2.0, and 
M-OTN) and analyzes three transport solutions. These 
solutions re/f_lect the ongoing convergence and 
advancement of transport and packet technologies, 
diﬀering in the layer and depth of transport and 
 
 
 
quality needs of the railway private network.
Secure isolation and reliable transport: The 5G-R 
system needs to support railway production 
services such as dispatch communication and train 
control. Moreover, it involves operational support 
services such as video monitoring, line inspection, 
and other railway applications, all requiring secure 
and reliable transport equivalent to or even higher 
than traditional SDH/MSTP . TDM hard isolation is 
provided between production operations, 
operational support services, and other 
applications. 
Large-scale private network management and 
control: The nationwide large-scale 5G-R private 
network has higher requirements for network 
planning, construction, maintenance, and 
optimization. All network services are manageable 
and controllable, with enhanced management 
and control capabilities of the transport NM 
Technology 
direction
FlexE
OTN fgOTNG.MTN FGU/fgMTNIP
MPLSSRv6
SR-TPT-SRv6
IPRAN Ethernet
M-OTN
Transport capabilityEnhanced 
transport network
Enhanced 
transport network
Enhanced 
transport networkEnhanced 
transport networkMPLS SR
SPN 1.0/2.0
From the perspective of overall 5G-R construction objectives, 
SPN 2.0 technical standards and products align well with its 
transport construction requirements, oﬀering advantages in 
technical capabilities. Currently, China State Railway Group is 
conducting a range of 5G-R veri/f_ication tests, with ZTE SPN 
actively cooperating. 
Slicing Packet Network Special Topic
30