Network per site slice
 
 
ZTE Transport Network 
Government & Enterprise 
Market Planning ManagerLiao Guoqing
Communication 
Technology Director, 
Changsha Suicheng Rail 
Transit Co., LtdYin Danling
Communication 
Technology Organizer, 
Changsha Suicheng Rail 
Transit Co., LtdDing JingSPN Empowers Changsha Rail Transit 
to Build a Premium Intelligent Metro
n June 2022, Changsha Metro Line 6 
commenced initial operation, featuring ZTE's 
SPN equipment for its dedicated transport 
system adopts, marking the debut of the 
/f_irst private SPN transport network for rail transit 
in China.
The metro’s communication network is essential 
for guaranteeing the smooth  operation of the metro 
system. It encompasses complex communication 
services, including traditional services such as train 
control, scheduling communication, video imaging, 
detection and monitoring, as well as emerging 
services such as massive sensor data transmission 
and unmanned driving. These services vary in 
bandwidth and latency requirements, with 
train-related services demanding higher levels of 
security and reliability.
The conventional MSTP network, with a 
maximum bandwidth of 10 Gbps on the line side, 
cannot meet the rapidly growing bandwidth 
demand of metros and the convergence 
requirements of various service types. To address 
the speci/f_ic technical requirements of Changsha 
Metro Line 6 for transport network deployment, 
ZTE has introduced an end-to-end SPN transport 
solution. Unlike traditional transport solutions, the 
SPN solution integrates TDM and packet switching, 
supports super-large bandwidth, and incorporates 
hard slicing and soft slicing to provide 
communication guarantees for both dedicated 
communications and the intelligent operation of 
metros.Hierarchical Large and Small 
Granularity Hard Slicing Technology
The introduction of /f_ine granularity unit (FGU) 
technology in Changsha Metro Line 6 marked its 
commercial debut in the existing rail transit networks. 
By utilizing its hard isolation and low latency features 
similar to SDH, production services with a 
bandwidth of approximately 100 Mbps—such as 
wireless  communication systems  and communication 
power monitoring—are carried over independent FGU 
channels to ensure physical isolation under the hard 
pipeline and meet the low latency transmission 
requirements of these services. For services with a 
bandwidth of 1000 Mbps or above—such as the video 
surveillance system, passenger information system, 
oﬃce automation system, and automatic ticketing 
system, FlexE large-granularity slices with a bandwidth 
of n×5G are employed. This enables eﬃcient and 
rational allocation of bandwidth resources. In the metro 
service deployment, each line-side 100GE is divided into 
six large-granularity n×5G bandwidth channels, with 
one large-granularity channel further divided into four 
small-granularity channels to accommodate the 
requirements of diﬀerent service channels. 
Nested Slicing Based on Hard Slicing 
and Soft Slicing
The integration of hard slicing and soft slicing 
ensures the isolation of diﬀerent types of metro 
services while improving the utilization of hard 
 
IIndustrial video slice
Integrated monitoring slice
Industrial control slice
5G transmission slice
35 
APR 2024