lines, and large enterprise private lines.
The SPN FGU technology re/f_ines the granularity of 
hard slices from 5 Gbps to 10 Mbps. Its features and 
capabilities include:
Fine-grained bandwidth to meet the bandwidth 
needs of diverse services:  Bandwidth granularity is 
10 Mbps, enabling /f_lexible N×10 Mbps bandwidth 
allocation. Fine-grained channels exclusively use 
deterministic timeslots to provide strict TDM 
features. The timeslots of the egress and ingress 
ports on any node of a channel are allocated 
and /f_ixed in advance at the management and 
control layer.
Low latency and low jitter: Through TDM 
timeslot cross-connection, /f_ine-grained 
services ensure deterministic low latency by 
avoiding the perception of packet messages. 
These services exclusively utilize timeslot 
resources in TDM channels, resulting in jitter far 
less than 1 µs.
Independent and complete OAM capabilities 
provided by each /f_ine-grained channel:  OAM 
blocks are inserted into each /f_ine-grained channel 
to provide connectivity detection, and fault and 
performance monitoring. This ensures protection 
switching within 50 ms.
Hitless online channel bandwidth adjustment: 
The bandwidth of /f_ine-grained hard pipes can be 
increased or reduced during normal service 
transport. This facilitates /f_lexible bandwidth and 
timeslot allocation.
With the evolution to SPN 2.0, continuous 
enhancements have been made to meet the needs 
of /f_ine-grained slicing for diverse services and 
provide /f_lexibility and intelligence.
Emerging Requirements for 
Private Lines
As industries undergo in-depth digital 
transformation, private lines show new demands and 
development trends.
The /f_irst demand is for integrated network 
transport accessing diverse services via private lines 
and networks. For instance, in the energy industry, 
typical services like power distribution automation, data network dispatching, power consumption collection, 
data communication network, video services, primary 
network relay protection channel, and Wi-Fi6 inspection 
robots have varied requirements in terms of latency, 
reliability, rate, and connection density. Therefore, it is 
necessary to utilize network resources to achieve uni/f_ied 
transport of diﬀerentiated services on the same network.
The second demand is for deterministic networks, 
especially for control and transaction services in areas such 
as /f_inancial services, where low and deterministic latency, 
high reliability, and security are crucial. Despite not 
requiring high service bandwidth, /f_inancial services 
demand stringent network security.
The third demand is for ubiquitous access and fast 
provisioning capabilities. As industry networks evolve 
towards cloud and /f_lat architectures, the surge in edge 
nodes and cross-area/cross-city service connections 
intensi/f_ies the complexity in network connections. Edge 
access may integrate wireless and wired access, so it is 
necessary to meet ubiquitous access and rapid 
provisioning needs of these numerous edge nodes.
The fourth demand is for end-to-end services rather than 
pipe services, emphasizing comprehensive customer services, 
like visual indicators and fast troubleshooting. Visual indicators 
rely on precise monitoring of network SLAs and can be 
displayed on customer-oriented application interfaces.
These new demands propel advancement and 
innovation in private line technology. 
Features and Advantages of SPN Private 
Lines
The technical features and advantages of SPN eﬀectively 
meet the private line market’s development demands. SPN 
can oﬀers access to TDM hard slices while supporting 
high-bandwidth access of packet soft slices. This allows a 
single SPN network to oﬀer integrated access for various 
customer services. Additionally, for highly demanding 
control services, SPN 10 Mbps /f_ine-grained hard slices can be 
directly used to provide independent TDM channels, 
isolating physical timeslots from other services. China 
Mobile's SPN networks have extensive coverage in China, 
boasting over 400,000 SPN devices and the capability of 
ubiquitous access. The intelligent O&M capability of SPN has 
seen continuous improvement, with inband OAM 
supporting service-/f_low-level accurate performance 
monitoring. The standard northbound interfaces of the 
 Expert Views
12 