ZTE and Liaoning Mobile Jointly Build 
Intelligent Closed-Loop System for SPN 
Service Quality Guarantee
Intelligent Rule-Orchestrated Fault 
Diagnosis 
Traditional manual fault analysis relies heavily on 
the experience of professional personnel, involving 
extensive tasks such as alarm /f_iltering, correlation 
analysis, tool preparation, and locating, which are 
time-consuming. It is challenging to pass on O&M 
experience and train new personnel. ZTE proposes 
an intelligent fault diagnosis solution that centralizes 
and modularizes distributed diagnosis tools such as 
ping, IOAM, RCA, and con/f_iguration check. In 
diﬀerent service scenarios, maintenance personnel 
can independently orchestrate these modular 
diagnosis rules, adding /f_ixed solutions to the library. 
During fault location, the system automatically selects 
and executes a diagnosis solution based on the fault 
type. Currently, the system can locate faults in various 
services, including connection/disconnection, 
packet loss, and clock faults. This feature allows 
mature diagnosis rules to be rapidly /f_ixed, making it 
convenient for O&M personnel to call the rules at any 
time. It addresses the bottleneck of low eﬃciency in 
O&M knowledge transfer and the long accumulation 
cycles for maintenance experience. Diagnostic time 
is shortened from hours to minutes, greatly 
improving fault location eﬃciency.
Group Fault Analysis: Automatic 
Fault Location
A group fault refers to a quality abnormality 
aﬀecting multiple services or network objects 
simultaneously due to the same fault. These faults 
mainly occur at the aggregation and core layers of 
the network and are typically identi/f_ied through 
customer complaints. When a group fault occurs, it 
can result in a decline in the service quality of 
Transport Product 
Planning Manager, 
ZTEOu Xuegang
Transport Product 
Planning Manager, 
ZTEDong Kainann the 5G era, network architecture and service 
models become increasingly complex. The 
traditional O&M mode, relying on expert 
experience, suﬀers from low fault location 
eﬃciency and lengthy troubleshooting time, 
acting as a bottleneck for network O&M. Passive 
O&M, triggered by user complaints after service 
quality degradation or fault occurrence, severely 
aﬀects user experience. To improve service quality 
in existing 5G SPN networks, boost user 
satisfaction, and drive automation, digitization, 
and intelligentization of network O&M, ZTE and 
China Mobile Liaoning (Liaoning Mobile for short) 
jointly proposed an intelligent closed-loop system 
solution (Fig. 1). Veri/f_ication of this solution was 
conducted on ZTE’s intelligent management and 
control system ZENIC ONE (UME) in the existing 
network.
This solution extends alarm compression and 
root cause analysis capabilities based on intelligent 
rule-orchestrated fault diagnosis. It also deploys 
group fault analysis and automatic service quality 
maintenance (intent maintenance) functions, 
enabling intelligent closed-loop management. This 
includes real-time service status perception, 
automatic delimitation and location during fault 
analysis, and minute-level service recovery in 
certain scenarios. With this solution, SPN fault 
location accuracy can reach 95%, and overall O&M 
eﬃciency can increase by over 35%, as service 
quality problems are identi/f_ied more eﬃciently 
and precise solutions are provided. By 
transitioning from manual and passive O&M to 
automatic and active O&M in certain scenarios, 
network maintenance eﬃciency and service 
security are enhanced, customer complaint rates 
are reduced, and customer satisfaction is 
improved.I 
 
 
 
40 Success Stories 