SDN-based centralized management and control 
system enable data entry to the orchestration system 
and upper-layer customer systems. Fig. 1 illustrates 
the network architecture of an SPN private line.
China Mobile has launched three SPN private line 
products based on SPN features: basic SPN private 
line, advanced SPN private line, and customized 
industry SPN private network. The basic version 
focuses on slice sharing, ubiquitous access, and fast 
provisioning. Industry users can share MTN slices, with 
isolation through VPN for users within the same MTN 
slice. The advanced version provides /f_ine-grained 
MTN slices for single-user dedication with ultra-high 
determinacy. Customized industry SPN private 
networks meet speci/f_ic customer requirements, 
allowing the selection of hard or soft slices, and are 
physically isolated from other user slices.
For enhanced adaptation to edge access in SPN 
private lines, smaller SPN devices are developed in 
addition to metro SPN devices. These smaller devices 
feature reduced con/f_igurations and costs, with 
enhanced integrated access capabilities tailored for 
edge coverage. They oﬀer small switching capacity, 
compact size, AC power supply, and low power 
consumption to meet the requirements in edge 
scenarios. Interconnected through NNIs, small SPN 
devices and metro SPN devices provide end-to-end 
Ethernet /f_ine-grained hard slices and slice-based 
hitless bandwidth adjustment for high-value user 
demands. Small SPN devices must provide standard 
southbound interfaces and uni/f_ied management and 
control capabilities to facilitate orchestration and 
control.Private line technologies have enhanced 
forwarding layer capabilities and are advancing 
end-to-end intelligent services. Key improvements 
include enhancing the intelligent management 
system, automating interfaces for customer service 
integration, and timely display of private line 
commissioning, operation status, and fault locating 
on customer interfaces. Collaboration among 
intelligent systems at network equipment, 
management and control, and platform levels is 
essential. Collecting comprehensive historical and 
current data enables eﬃcient control, analysis, 
prediction of risks, and enhanced user experience. As 
intelligent management and control capabilities 
advance, the eﬃciency of network OAM and private 
line services will see continuous enhancement in the 
future.
Conclusion
As a 5G mobile backhaul network innovation, SPN 
eﬃciently caters to 5G commercialization needs. Amid 
the digital transformation of industries, private lines 
seek integrated network transport, deterministic 
latency, ubiquitous access, fast provisioning, and 
end-to-end intelligent services. SPN 2.0, centered 
around /f_ine-granularity hard slicing, addresses these 
market demands. China Mobile oﬀers a range of SPN 
private line products including basic SPN private line, 
advanced SPN private line, and customized industry 
SPN private network, to support the transport of 
diverse private line services and create China’s digital 
intelligence future.
Fig. 1. Network 
architecture of 
an SPN private line. 
 
 Ordinary user
China Mobile cloud
Third-party cloudIP backbone 
networkThird-party cloud
Default slicesSelf serviceCloud & network 
resource sharing
SPN transport 
network
ToB private lines share MTN hard slices
ToB private lines share MTN hard slices
Inband OAM SLA detectionIndustry user
VIP userNetwork 
controllerIntegrated asset 
managementCloud management 
platform 1
Cloud management 
platform 2Multi-cloud 
management 
platform
Cloud management 
platform nCollaboration/orchestration layerService operation portalAPR 2024 
 13