slicing bandwidth. As depicted in Fig. 1, 10 Gbps hard slice 
channels are allocated to metro video surveillance 
services within a total bandwidth of 100GE, ensuring 
complete isolation from other service channels. A 
PW/tunnel-based VPN (a basic soft slicing mode) is used 
to carry the video surveillance service from each station. 
At each station, a switching module facilitates 
convergence between the local PW/tunnel and those of 
other stations. These converged services are carried over 
the hard slice channel. Diﬀerent service models such as 
virtual private wire service (VPWS) and virtual private LAN 
service (VPLS) can be deployed, maximizing bandwidth 
utilization of hard slice channels through statistical 
multiplexing technologies such as VPN.
Compared to the Ethernet over SDH (EOS) convergence 
function of traditional MSTP , which typically oﬀers a 
backplane bandwidth of about 2.5 Gbps, SPN equipment 
can provide n×5G bandwidth to hard slicing services, with 
the maximum bandwidth reaching the line bandwidth. In 
addition, the convergence ratio of the virtual 
concatenation group (VCG) on the backplane of EOS is 
generally no greater than 48, posing constraints on 
networking applications. However, the soft slicing of SPN 
equipment, based on VPN technology, supports a 
signi/f_icant number of PWs and tunnels, extending to the K 
level, fully meeting the application scenarios involving  
multiple service types and a large number of sites and 
services.
Super-Large Bandwidth
A 100GE ring is deployed on the line side of the 
network to provide metro subsystems with redundant, 
recon/f_igurable, and /f_lexible channels for information 
transmission and switching. Utilizing large-bandwidth 
elastic packet pipes, metro security check information can 
be collected in real time and processed centrally, 
facilitating simultaneous checking of both human bodies 
and objects. This approach improves the eﬃciency and 
accuracy of inspection and backtracking processes. 
Moreover, the SPN-based FlexE link bundling function 
binds two physical channels of 100GE interface to create a 
logical channel with large bandwidth. This enables 
high-rate services to be transmitted through low-rate 
physical ports and facilitates the smooth upgrade of 
line-side bandwidth to 200GE. 
Looking ahead, a uni/f_ied smart platform for metro development and operation will be built. The 
transport system will carry services such as smart 
O&M, smart travel, smart station, smart factory, smart 
driving, smart scheduling, and smart operation. The 
availability of 200GE ultra-large bandwidth on the line 
side will provide suﬃcient channel capacity for the 
development of this smart platform.
Supporting E1 CBR
In metros, the E1 service usually serves as an 
important production service, such as the dispatching 
telephone service, which has high requirements for 
service security, reliability, and delay indicators. SPN can 
carry E1 services at a constant bit rate (CBR). Client services 
are encapsulated into 10 Mbps small-granularity hard 
channels in the form of 66B blocks, without packet 
processing. This solves the soft isolation problem of 
the original PWE3 mode, ensuring not only service 
bandwidth and bit error performance but also 
providing delay performance similar to SDH. Through 
end-to-end FGU channels, E1 CBR ensures the hard 
isolation of E1 services on the entire path, meeting the 
high security and reliability requirements of metro 
production services.
Complete Network Protection Modes
The SPN device oﬀers network-level hierarchical 
protection capabilities, supporting carrier-class fast 
protection switching with service switchover time of 
less than 50 ms. Additionally, it supports controller-based 
rerouting to achieve permanent 1+1 protection  similar to 
that of ASON.
Furthermore, SPN equipment supports VPN FRR/IP 
FRR protection on the customer service sublayer to 
provide redundancy protection to PE nodes. It also 
supports link aggregation group (LAG) protection to 
enhance bandwidth and link reliability. On the 
network transmission sublayer, SPN supports linear 
protection, dual-homing protection, ring network 
protection, and SR-BE protection in any topology. On 
the slicing channel layer, it supports MTN path 1 +1 
protection function, with service protection switching 
time reduced to several milliseconds. The rerouting 
and slicing channel protection capabilities of SPN 
provide superior functions and performance 
36 Success Stories 