investment aspects. The networking solution for 
massive SPN deployment was also tested.
Maintenance management: Examining key issues 
such as maintenance management modes of SPN 
services from diﬀerent vendors.
 
This initiative comprised the inter-province and 
intra-province parts. ZTE participated in the 
Beijing-Guangdong inter-province same-vendor 
test, the Shanghai-Guangdong inter-province 
diﬀerent-vendor test, as well as the intra-province 
same-vendor tests in Beijing and Guangdong. These 
tests fully validated various network protection 
switching functions including /f_ine-granularity 
escape and interconnection protection, as well as 
functions like lossless bandwidth adjustment, service 
isolation, and network self-service. These tests also 
compared the SPN functions with those of PTN and 
OTN networks. Fig. 2 shows the inter-province private 
line test topology.
The test results demonstrated that the SPN could 
provide hard slicing with /f_lexible granularity and 
facilitate lossless bandwidth adjustment. It could 
provide both hard and soft slicing simultaneously, 
along with multiple protection modes, such as 
rerouting and /f_ine-granularity escape routes, to 
improve network security. The statistics of 
sent/received packets and latency obtained during inband OAM detection matched with those recorded 
by test meters, and network SLA indicators were 
eﬀectively detected. The SPN’s network agility and 
self-service capabilities were also veri/f_ied, con/f_irming 
the completeness of its functions.
At the same time, China Mobile launched a live 
trial of the SPN CPE. The SPN CPEs were expected to 
facilitate access for various types of customer 
services and meet the /f_lexible networking 
requirements across diﬀerent vendors. By 
connecting with the NNI of the MAN SPN, the SPN 
CPEs could provide end-to-end /f_ine-granularity hard 
slicing, hierarchical fault location, channel-associated 
inband OAM performance monitoring, L2/L3-to-edge 
multi-service access capability, and lossless bandwidth 
adjustment.
ZTE is committed to collaborating with the industry 
chain to utilize the technological advantages of the SPN 
to empower a multitude of industry sectors. Across 
networks in provinces including Shanxi, Shaanxi and 
Jilin, the SPN has already been extensively used to carry 
private line services for group customers. Industries like 
transportation and mining have begun signi/f_icant 
commercial use of SPN technology. It is anticipated that 
in the near future, the SPN private line technology will 
see even wider adoption across many industries to 
create value for a vast array of users.
Fig. 2. Inter-province 
SPN private line test 
topology.
Access 
ring
Standby path
Active pathOTNNational backbone OTN
 OTN OTN
OTN OTN
OTN OTN
Guangdong 
provincial OTN
Group customer branch 3
Self-loopMeter /f_low
SPNTest meter
13
Beijing SPN
Group customer 
headquarters/ Test meters
Group customer branch 1Dongguan SPN
2
OTN
OTNOTN APR 2024
 21