implemented in commercial operations. 
To date, what results have you seen from 
the implementation of your services?
Geo-analytics: By applying advanced 
mathematical models on people’s movements, 
we help governments to plan city infrastructure 
and roads, bus routes and public events, and 
help local businesses to predict the best 
locations for their new stores and optimize 
delivery routes.
Video analytics: Through the utilization of 
computer vision and AI, we are helping 
/f_ire/f_ighters to identify and stop /f_ires, ensure 
safety at the workplace, and enable eﬃcient 
operations of the local businesses.
Precision marketing (AdTech): By capitalizing on 
the proximity to the customers and detailed 
local knowledge, only in 2023, 2 billion ad 
impressions per month were served and 30 
billion ad impressions per month were made 
available through VEON AdTech services. 
All of this is executed on the customer data 
stored in the in-country Data Centers, ensuring 
full compliance with local data privacy rules, and 
managed by top local talent.
Through detailed customer knowledge, and 
by applying advanced mathematical models, we 
will empower local businesses to /f_lourish and 
local economies to grow.
How is your product unique and truly 
innovative compared to other solutions 
on the market?
VEON AdTech leverages enriched VEON Telco 
Data and advanced mathematical models to 
oﬀer valuable solutions to local businesses, 
improving their operational eﬃciencies and 
reducing informational pollution for the 
end-consumers. 
VEON AdTech uses VEON’s own local 
applications and websites (Telco Self-service, 
Television/media, Music, Healthcare, Fintech, 
etc) as the most relevant advertisement 
 
 
 
 
publishing platforms for the end consumers. 
This is an integral part of VEON Digital Operator 
(DO1440) strategy and a key monetization 
channel. This is executed in addition to 
advertisements via META, Google, Telegram, 
and TikTok. 
VEON AdTech adheres to stringent privacy 
policies and provides the highest level of 
protection to users, both from information 
overload and from unwanted communication. 
Users can easily and consistently opt out of 
VEON communication at any time. 
VEON AdTech stores and manages customer 
data locally in each country of operation, ensuring 
full compliance with local data privacy rules. 
VEON AdTech complies with major international 
standards, such as the IAB standards and the ICC 
marketing code.
What is your vision for sustainable 
future growth? 
Fast growth of VEON AdTech is fueled by the 
knowledge, connection, and proximity it has to 
customers.
This is just the beginning. 
Together, we are generating growth for local 
businesses, building a new value creation stream 
for mobile operators and a better protected world 
for customers.
 
 05 APR 2024