compared to SDH and MSTP technologies, ensuring 
the high security and reliability of rail transit services.
Ultra-High-Precision 1588 Time 
Synchronization
The SPN equipment supports synchronous 
Ethernet function for stable and reliable frequency 
synchronization, along with PTP function for 
ultra-high-precision time synchronization, providing 
necessary synchronization signals to the wireless 
subsystem of metros.
SPN’s high-precision time synchronization 
includes ultra-high-precision clock sources and 
ultra-high-precision time transfer technologies. Time 
servers track satellites, enhancing performance from 
100 ns to 30 ns. The ultra-high-precision time transfer 
technology improves the transmission time 
synchronization precision of SPN through optimized 
interface timestamp processing, evolution of the 
1588 time synchronization protocol, and enhanced 
single-/f_iber bidirectional link symmetry. SPN can 
deliver ultra-high time precision of ±5 ns to each site, 
ensuring precise synchronization for various new 
metro services in the future.
Intelligent Management and Control
ZTE’s new universal management engine (UME) 
system integrates network management, service 
control, and network analysis functions, serving as the 
core system that enables network resource pooling, 
network connection automation and optimization, and 
O&M automation. Through the UME system, the SPN network achieves centralized network management 
and control, uni/f_ied network-wide policies, end-to-end 
network visualization, and intelligent O&M, thereby 
improving O&M eﬃciency. 
Moreover, it implements uni/f_ied management of 
resources across the entire network, oﬀering 
real-time visualization and visual analysis of existing 
network resource information across multiple 
dimensions, including services, tunnel connections, 
capacity, and sites, enabling accurate identi/f_ication 
of network resource bottlenecks. Based on SDN 
technology, the SPN network supports centralized 
path calculation, ensuring optimal route 
determination during service provisioning, and 
preventing rerouting failures caused by resource 
con/f_licts during service recovery. 
Additionally, the SPN network supports one-click 
automatic and rapid deployment, an end-to-end 
service quality detection mechanism, intelligent 
communication fault diagnosis, and automatic 
optimization and adjustment of channel 
bandwidth, providing strong support for smart 
metro operation. 
Since the launch of Changsha Metro Line 6, its 
communications system has been operating smoothly, 
with all service performance indicators meeting the 
strict requirements of the intelligent rail transit system 
for transport networks. This serves as an important 
reference for future large-scale commercial 
deployment. ZTE remains committed to oﬀering 
comprehensive technical support for the operation of 
the Changsha Metro communications transmission 
network, and strives to establish a premium rail transit 
network.
Fig. 1. The video 
surveillance service 
carried by the 
combination of 
SPN hard slicing 
and soft slicing.
Station 1Station 2 Station 3
Control 
Center
100GE Eth
PW1/LSP1PW2/LSP2PW3/LSP3
Switching module
Switching module
Switching moduleSwitching module
N×5G hard slicing
 37 APR 2024