Fig. 1. SPN private 
line products.
SPN Private Line Technology
To establish a precise, integrated, intelligent, and 
low-carbon next-generation service transport 
network, SPN technology continually evolves to 
cater to various scenarios, including 5G transport, 
industry sectors, and government and enterprise 
networks. The rich customization capabilities of the 
SPN private line is built upon several key SPN 
technologies.
Hard-Isolated Channel  
The SPN architecture innovatively introduces 
slicing Ethernet technology, which extends Ethernet 
slicing capabilities based on the native Ethernet 
kernel. It is fully compatible with current Ethernet 
networks while eliminating the need for packets to 
go through caching and table lookup at L2/L3. SPN 
also supports FlexE interfaces and slicing Ethernet 
cross-connect (SE-XC) channel technologies. This 
enables Ethernet physical layer networking, which 
provides deterministic low latency and hard pipe 
isolation, primarily used for basic slicing in 5G 
granularity.
Inheriting SPN’s eﬃcient Ethernet kernel, SPN /f_ine 
granularity unit (FGU) technology incorporates 
/f_ine-granularity slicing into the SPN architecture 
through a hierarchical design, providing end-to-end 
/f_ine-granularity hard pipes at the FGU sublayer. The 
FGU uses a TDM mechanism similar to SDH to achieve 
strict hard isolation between diﬀerent services. By 
de/f_ining a /f_ixed frame structure, this technology 
further divides the 5 Gbps time slot at the SPN channel 
layer, with a minimum granularity of 10 Mbps. SPN FGU technology constructs eﬃcient, lossless, 
bandwidth-/f_lexible, and reliable end-to-end channels 
and transport modes to meet diﬀerentiated transport 
requirements (e.g., low bandwidth, high isolation, and 
high security) in scenarios like 5G–for-industry-sector 
applications and private lines.
Network Quality Perception 
Leveraging inband operations, administration, and 
maintenance (OAM), SPN oﬀers end-to-end inband and 
real-time monitoring capabilities, facilitating direct 
measurement of service packets. This enables real-time 
awareness of the SLA for each service and packet. With 
second-level telemetry data collection, uni/f_ied control, 
computation, and visualization capabilities, it provides 
real-time visibility into network quality, active 
monitoring and rapid fault location.
ZTE’s inband OAM functionality supports a vast 
number of concurrent instances, self-learning of traﬃc 
control, and scenario-focused priority assurance, 
enhancing network quality perception capabilities of 
the SPN for carrying diverse services.
Multiple Network Protection Mechanisms  
Within the SPN architecture, there exists both a 
centralized control plane for the management and 
control system and a distributed control plane for 
devices, providing multiple network protection 
mechanisms. The SPN provides basic linear protection 
modes, such as segment routing-transport pro/f_ile 
(SR-TP) 1:1 protection, and also VPN fast reroute (FRR) 
node protection. These network protection 
mechanisms greatly improve the reliability and security 
of the SPN. Take the SR-TP tunnel as an example. If both 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic SPN private line Premium SPN private line Customized SPN private network
Product 
categoryNetwork upgrade over traditional 
private lineTenant-/service-level dedicated line Big-customer-level private network
Network 
solution
Group customer
 EnterpriseCloud APR 2024
 19