Guangdong Mobile Embraces SPN 
Dynamic Energy Solution for Green Transport
SPN AI Dynamic Energy Saving 
Solution
The existing SPN experiences noticeable tidal 
eﬀects and periodic traﬃc /f_luctuations over time. 
The innovative AI dynamic energy-saving solution 
collects real-time network data, analyzes and 
predicts changes in service load, and devises 
energy-saving schemes at chip, module, board, and 
network levels, ensuring intelligent power 
conservation while maintaining strict transmission 
performance. 
Utilizing big data technologies and AI algorithms, 
the solution analyzes SPN traﬃc, predicts service 
trends, and implements precise energy-saving 
policies. It also incorporates various security 
protection mechanisms and energy-saving exit 
strategies according to network device and service 
operation statuses, thereby ensuring network and 
service security. 
Traﬃc Data Analysis: Determining 
Mainstream Scenarios
Based on half-year traﬃc data, scenarios are 
categorized into base station and private line traﬃc 
 
Senior Expert of 
Wireline Product 
Service Planning, ZTEHan Jike
Deputy Manager of 
Transport Power 
Oﬃce, Network 
Management Center, 
China Mobile 
GuangdongYang Xinjianmid global warming, the Chinese 
government aims to achieve carbon 
peak by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 
2060, as outlined in the 2021 State 
Council Government Work Report. China Mobile has 
diligently implemented this directive by upgrading 
its “Green Action Plan” to the “C/two.superior Three 
Capabilities—Carbon Peak and Carbon Neutrality 
Action Plan” in 2021, setting clear energy 
conservation and carbon reduction goals. By the end 
of the 14th Five-Year Plan, comprehensive energy 
consumption and carbon emissions per unit of total 
telecom services are projected to decline by over 
20% compared to the 13th Five-Year Plan. 
The energy consumption proportion of China 
Mobile’s transport network ranges from 5% to 10%. 
There are obvious tidal eﬀects and periodical traﬃc 
variations, but power consumption of network 
devices does not vary with service loads, leading to 
substantial wasted energy. To address these 
challenges, China Mobile Guangdong (Guangdong 
Mobile for short) and ZTE initiated AI energy-saving 
research and development for SPN in April 2021, 
successfully piloting the application in the existing 
Shaoguan network in May 2022. A
 
 
 
 
38 Success Stories 