ASPN: Empowering 5G Virtual 
Private Networks for Electric 
Power Industry
s climate change intensi/f_ies, more 
countries and regions are adopting 
plans to peak carbon emissions and 
achieve carbon neutrality. Concrete 
actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 
promote a low-carbon economy are being taken. 
At the 2020 United Nations General Assembly, the 
Chinese government put forward its “30-60” target , 
aiming to peak carbon emissions by 2030 and 
achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. To reach this 
target, China will focus on building a clean, 
low-carbon, secure, and eﬃcient energy system. 
This includes controlling fossil energy 
consumption, improving energy eﬃciency, 
implementing renewable energy substitution, and 
undertaking structural reforms in the electric 
power sector. The goal is to construct a new power 
system centered around new energy sources. The 
introduction of 5G virtual private networks (VPNs) 
in the electric power industry will facilitate the 
creation of an energy Internet, supporting power 
grid companies and energy enterprises in 
transitioning to the new power system and 
advancing dual carbon goals.
Requirements and Background of 5G 
VPN for Electric Power Industry
5G services for the electric power industry fall 
into two main categories: control and collection. 
Based on power security requirements, they can be 
further categorized into four zones: production 
control zones (Security Subzones I and II), and management information zones (Security 
Subzones III and IV). Each zone carries distinct 
services with varying security needs. For example, 
Security Subzone I demands low communication 
latency (less than 12 ms end-to-end) and high 
reliability for diﬀerential protection services. 
Although /f_iber communication is heavily relied 
upon, the power distribution network span a vast 
area with numerous scattered communication 
terminal points. High synchronization accuracy is 
crucial for power distribution automation service 
in Security Subzone I and high-bandwidth video 
conferencing in Security Subzone II. Automatic 
relay protection equipment monitors distribution 
network lines and devices to quickly locate and 
isolate faults. For electric power video surveillance, 
especially HD monitoring, ultra-large bandwidth is 
needed. For example, deploying multiple 4K 
cameras at places like substations and 
high-voltage towers allows comprehensive 
multi-angle inspection.
According to security requirements of power 
services, physical isolation separates power grid 
services from other B2B/B2C services. Production 
control zones are physically separated from 
management information zones, with logical 
isolation within each zone. Traditional power 
networks rely on the overlaying of multiple transport 
schemes including synchronous digital hierarchy 
(SDH), optical transport network (OTN), and power 
line carriers. This results in high deployment costs, 
inability to guarantee service requirements, and lack 
of centralized control.
Digital Planning 
Manager, Nanjing 
Branch of State Grid 
JiangsuWang Wendi
Network Planning 
Manager, Network 
Dept., China Mobile 
Nanjing BranchHao Changjian
Director of Transport 
Product Planning, ZTEZhou WenduanSlicing Packet Network Special Topic 
26 