models by service type, high/low-traﬃc by traﬃc 
scale, regular/irregular-traﬃc areas by traﬃc 
features, and short/long-cycle scenarios by traﬃc 
changes. 
Traﬃc Trend Prediction and Energy Saving 
Policy Selection
Combining multi-model weights with the 
operational status of each period, long-term trend 
prediction adopts Prophet and LSTM algorithms to 
predict the next period’s traﬃc trend, generating 
periodic prediction baselines and determining 
maximum and minimum traﬃc prediction ranges. 
The short-term early warning algorithm utilizes 
ARIMA and exponential regression algorithms to 
predict real-time traﬃc, assess trends, and make 
energy-saving decisions such as chip/module/board 
sleep based on real-time traﬃc trends. It evaluates 
the long-term trend model and dynamically adjusts 
it according to real-time traﬃc data. 
Energy Saving Safety Mechanism
In sandbox mode, the energy-saving algorithm 
simulates operation, evaluates its impact on devices 
and services, and calculates energy-saving eﬀects.
Multi-Layer Protection Mechanism
Given the fundamental role of the SPN in the 
communication network, ensuring network security 
is crucial. The energy-saving solution integrates a 
multi-layer security protection mechanism spanning 
from NE to network. 
On the NE side, multiple regression algorithms are 
used for weighted analysis and prediction of 
network traﬃc to generate trend prediction models, 
build energy consumption prediction baselines, and 
calculate secure and reliable energy-saving spaces 
based on the traﬃc model. Moreover, the power 
consumption distribution inside the equipment is 
controlled according to its structural thermodynamic 
model. Combined with the design of ZTE’s in-house 
core chips, diﬀerent components such as chips, fans, 
modules and boards within the equipment are 
adjusted to execute energy-saving policies in a 
secure and reliable environment. 
On the network side, to deal with prevalent 
scenarios in transport networks like protection 
switching or traﬃc migration, the controller analyzes traﬃc 
relationships between NEs, calculates the protection path 
of each NE in real time, predicts potential traﬃc migration, 
and avoids burst step impacts that a single NE cannot 
predict. This approach establishes an energy-saving policy 
on the network layer, ensuring energy eﬃciency under 
stringent performance conditions. 
Energy Saving Exit Mechanism
To ensure uninterrupted service operation, the 
system incorporates three energy-saving exit 
mechanisms: when real-time traﬃc exceeds the preset 
threshold, a speci/f_ic alarm is triggered, and the 
energy-saving mode is manually deactivated. 
Veri/f_ication in Guangdong Mobile’s 
Existing Network
The AI energy-saving solution was discussed multiple 
times by Guangdong Mobile and ZTE, underwent 
numerous lab veri/f_ications, and was deployed and 
tested extensively in China Mobile Shaoguan in May 
2022.                                    
Energy eﬃciency: If dynamic energy saving is 
disabled, the existing network of Guangdong Mobile 
with 955 sets of ZXCTN 6700 is estimated to consume 
16.5177 million kWh. Enabling dynamic energy saving 
saves 15.28%, approximately 2.5239 million kWh 
annually, equivalent to 2.0191 million RMB in electricity 
costs.
Security veri/f_ication: The devices enter energy-saving 
mode to test four scenarios: burst traﬃc, board 
plugging/unplugging, tunnel switchover, and forced 
shutdown. No alarms or packet loss occur in the 
system, achieving the expected result. The system 
has operated securely and stably for over six months, 
enduring tests during major events such as Dragon 
Boat Festival, shopping festivals, college entrance 
examinations, National Day, and Spring Festival. 
Achievement promotion: Building on successful 
trials in Guangdong, China Mobile has actively 
promoted the SPN dynamic energy-saving solution to 
other provinces in the country. It’s now being applied 
in Heilongjiang, and will expand to Gansu, Guizhou, 
Zhejiang, Yunnan, and Fujian. Pilot projects and 
applications are expected to be completed across all 
provincial branches of China Mobile. 
 39 APR 2024