computing power, and intelligence” , China Mobile 
has actively researched computing network 
technologies. In the SPN network domain, China 
Mobile Research Institute formulated the Technical 
Speci/f_ication for SPN Computing Network 
Perception Equipment in the /f_irst half of 2022. In 
August 2022, in collaboration with ZTE, China 
Mobile trialed the T-SRv6 solution on its existing 
SPN network in Guangdong. This marks the /f_irst 
SPN SRv6 trial with existing network services in 
China, verifying the agile SRv6 deployment 
capability on the SPN network and its ability to 
open /f_lexible slice channels through 
programmable technology. 
To further verify end-to-end interoperability 
between the SPN T-SRv6 solution and the cloud 
private network, China Mobile and ZTE jointly 
conducted cross-domain SRv6 interoperability tests 
integrating SPN with the cloud private network in 
Zhejiang Provence. Utilizing an orchestrator, they 
orchestrated cross-network services between SPN 
and the cloud private network, con/f_irming the 
end-to-end SRv6 one-hop cloud service 
provisioning capability of SPN T-SRv6 and the cloud 
private network.
The successful T-SRv6 trial on China Mobile’s 
existing SPN network veri/f_ies the feasibility and 
advancement of the SPN T-SRv6 solution, making a 
signi/f_icant step towards its commercial use.
 
 
 
cloud private network, or upgrades existing 
termination devices in the SPN core layer. At the same 
time, SPN CPE supporting T-SRv6 capability is 
deployed on the client side of the cloud service. 
Other network devices remain unchanged. This 
enables end-to-end SRv6 one-hop connectivity to 
the cloud, facilitating rapid provisioning of 
computing connection services (Fig. 3).
 
Continuous Evolution to Meet Full Lifecycle Needs 
of Computing Networks
In the future, computing networks will evolve to 
computing-network integration, requiring devices 
connected to computing resources (such as edge 
cloud) in the computing network to possess 
computing perception and reporting capabilities. 
These devices must also support computing routes 
and implement route search and forwarding based 
on the computing power. The choice of forwarding 
method for nodes within the network does not aﬀect 
the functionality and applications of the computing 
network. By upgrading SPN network edge nodes, the 
T-SRv6 solution can meet the future requirements of 
computing-network integration for computing 
scheduling.
SRv6 Trial on Existing SPN Network
To achieve the vision of “ubiquitous network, 
Fig. 3. Agile T-SRv6 
deployment 
solution.
 
gNB
Campus 
edge cloud
rivate 
network
Cloud userUPE1
UPE2
UPE3
UPE4CPE
SPN devices supporting T-SRv6SPNNPE1
NPE2SPE
SPECity edge
 cloud
GW1
Cloud pNetwork PE1 Cloud PE1
Network PE2Cloud PE2Province/region 
cloud
Existing SPN devices
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APR 2024
 25