working and protection paths in 1:1 protection fail, the 
SPN provides a rerouting protection solution. 
Furthermore, if a connection between the management 
and control system and a network device is interrupted, 
the distributed control plane for network devices may 
activate an escape route protection mechanism via 
segment routing-best eﬀort/uni00A0 (SR-BE) tunnel using the 
IGP protocol.
 
Ubiquitous Coverage Capability
The SPN is a uni/f_ied transport network that 
carries 5G backhaul, government and enterprise 
private lines, and enterprise-to-cloud services. With 
more than 400,000 SPN devices already deployed, 
its coverage area exceeds that of the optical 
transport network (OTN) and the IP metropolitan 
area network (MAN), but still smaller than that of the 
packet transport network (PTN). Give the 
importance of the last kilometer in rapid service 
provisioning, operators need a network capable of 
ubiquitous coverage. The deployment of indoor 
distribution devices and small cells brings the SPN 
network closer to the edge, enhancing its coverage 
capability to some extent.
Moreover, the deployment of SPN CPEs will greatly 
contribute to achieving ubiquitous coverage. SPN 
CPEs support FGU over a 10 GE interface, extending 
Nx10 Mbps hard pipes to oﬃce desks of the 
customer, facilitating end-to-end SPN slicing. With 
reduced  capacity, they consume less power, enabling 
access for ToB services. Their 1U height and smaller size 
increase deployment /f_lexibility. Additionally, SPN CPEs 
can network with MAN devices end-to-end through a 
network-to-network interface (NNI), reducing 
deployment diﬃculty. They also incorporate computing 
power for real-time data collection and analysis, 
enhancing data security by keeping data within the 
campus.
Self-Service Capability
ZTE’s cloud native platform includes three engines 
(intent, control and perception) and two 
sub-platforms (big data and AI). The SPN 
management and control system is built on this 
platform, integrates network resources based on NE 
capabilities, and provides multiple self-service 
capabilities for customers.SLA visibility capability:  Real-time service 
indicators of the network, such as traﬃc, latency, 
jitter, and packet loss, can be exposed to third 
parties. Government and enterprise customers 
can develop web and app portal interfaces to 
display SLA indicators in real time.
Transparent provisioning capability:  The service 
provisioning progress is visible so that customers 
can track the the provisioning status in detail.
Private network connection topology:  The SPN 
management and control system provides a slice 
view showing the connections between the 
headquarters and branches of the industrial 
customer, along with slice view-based 
management and maintenance functions. 
Online bandwidth adjustment: Based on 
dynamic bandwidth requirements, enterprise 
customers can submit bandwidth increase or 
decrease orders online, which are then delivered 
to the network through the service orchestration 
and control system. Network devices support 
lossless bandwidth adjustment.
SPN Private Line Technology Trials
The development of the SPN private line has gone 
through many stages. In 2020, function-level 
demonstrations were conducted, showcasing 
large-granularity slicing, agile network provisioning, 
and multiple network protection mechanisms. In 
2021, trial commercial deployments started for 
functions such as small-granularity private lines and 
inband OAM with an aim to carry services for 
government and enterprise customers like electric 
power companies. In 2022, China Mobile launched a 
major SPN private line initiative, conducting live trials 
to validate the end-to-end transport of group 
customer services through SPN slices and to promote 
this technology in the market.  
The main items tested in the initiative were:
Service performance:  Evaluating end-to-end 
service performance in various scenarios, and 
comparing it with the current mode.
Networking solution:  Comparing the advantages 
and disadvantages of SPN networking solutions 
for various scenarios, along with their 
deployment, maintenance, management, and 
 
 
 
 
Slicing Packet Network Special Topic 
20 