n June 2022, China Mobile, along with 
partners including ZTE, released the slicing 
packet network/uni00A0 (SPN) 2.0 White Paper, 
marking the beginning of the SPN 2.0 era. 
The SPN 1.0 technology has been widely used by 
China Mobile and other operators for carrying 5G 
backhaul services and has been increasingly 
adopted by vertical industries such as subway, mine, 
and expressway. With the gradual deployment of 
China Mobile’s metro private line services on SPN 
networks and the growing transport demands of 
China Mobile’s metro computing power networks, 
SPN technology is evolving towards integrated 
service transport. 
SPN 2.0 aims to build an integrated transport 
platform that integrates TDM and packet 
multiplexing technology for metropolitan area 
networks and industry private networks. It focuses 
on high-value slicing private lines, slicing private 
networks that empower industrial digitalization and 
new computing-network convergence services. To 
support high-value slicing private lines, SPN 2.0 has 
introduced the 10M /f_ine-granularity unit (FGU) 
technology, which achieves or even surpasses the 
quality of MSTP private lines. Miniaturized SPN 
devices have been also introduced to provide 
/f_ine-granularity access and increase SPN coverage. 
To meet the needs of slicing private networks 
empowering industrial digitalization, SPN 2.0 
provides both soft and hard isolation, along with deterministic reliable communication, through the 
deep integration of TDM and packet technologies. In 
terms of the evolution of computing power 
networks, SPN 2.0 proposes transport SRv6 (T-SRv6) 
and native AI technologies to support new service 
transport.
High-Value Slicing Private Lines
The SPN 2.0 private line technology, centered on 
the metro transport network (MTN)/FGU slice 
channels, provides hard isolation, multi-service 
transport, inband OAM-based quality perception, as 
well as various network protection and self-service 
functions. This technology meets the demands of 
/f_ixed private lines, 5G private lines, and 
cross-provincial backbone end-to-end private lines 
with miniaturized SPN devices. 
At present, ZTE has deployed SPN private lines to 
carry enterprise customer private line services for 
China Mobile across a number of provinces. ZTE has 
cooperated with China Mobile on enterprise 
standard formulation, prototype R&D, and pilot tests 
of miniaturized SPN devices, thereby expanding the 
coverage capabilities of SPN private lines. In addition, 
leveraging the construction of provincial and 
Chief Engineer of 5G 
Transport Planning, 
ZTEZhao Fuchuan
Senior System 
Architect, ZTELiu Aihua
SPN 2.0: Empowering  
Various Industries 
I
SPN 2.0
Slicing Packet Network Special Topic 
 14