and transport network technologies, constituting an 
SRv6 solution with transport network features. 
Compared with the standard SRv6 solution, T-SRv6 
stands out with key features such as /f_lexible slicing, 
eﬃcient forwarding, bidirectional same path, and 
agile deployment.
Flexible Slicing to Meet Diverse Computing 
Connectivity Needs Across Industries
The SPN network supports metro transport 
network (MTN)-based slicing technology, oﬀering 
soft-isolated high-reliability SR-TP connections and 
/f_lexible SR BE connections in a shared slice, or 
hard-isolated MTN channel connections in an 
exclusive slice. With SRv6’s programmable capability, 
it can bind SRv6 to SR-TP tunnel in the SPN network 
using the Endpoint bound to an SR-MPLS policy 
(End.BM) de/f_ined by RFC 8986, providing a 
soft-isolated slice channel with statistical 
multiplexing and QoS bandwidth guarantee to the 
computing network. In addition, the T-SRv6 solution 
extends the standard SRv6 solution by de/f_ining the 
endpoint bound to a cross-connect channel 
(End.BXC) function to bind SRv6 to MTN channel hard 
isolation slice channels in the SRv6 network, 
providing lossless and deterministic hard isolation 
connections to the computing network. This 
approach enables end-to-end SRv6 binding to 
diﬀerent types of slicing channels within the SPN 
network, meeting the diﬀerentiated SLA 
 
 
employing a hierarchical management and 
control architecture and service model due to the 
distinct domains of the metro SPN and 
intra-province/inter-province backbone. The 
cross-domain orchestrator identi/f_ies domain border 
nodes and links. Each domain’s SPN/cloud private 
network controller computes and con/f_igures the 
forwarding path, and reports the binding SID (BSID) 
indicating the intra-domain path to the orchestrator. 
The orchestrator orchestrates the BSID into an 
end-to-end SRv6 policy path. Since the intra-domain 
forwarding path indicated by the BSID is con/f_igured 
by each domain controller and remains invisible to 
external networks, SRv6 programmable technology 
is used to associate the BSID with SR-TP or MTN 
channel within the domain. In this way, the SPN 
network can achieve SRv6 capability only at border 
nodes while maintaining existing SR-TP or MTN 
channel forwarding mechanisms within the domain, 
thus creating an SPN SRv6 solution with transport 
features.
Key T-SRv6 Features
The T-SRv6 solution supports /f_lexible and 
programmable capabilities de/f_ined by the standard 
SRv6 solution. It can interoperate with networks like 
the intra-province/inter-province cloud private 
networks of China Mobile, exclusively supporting the 
standard SRv6 solution. Moreover, it combines SRv6 
  SPNSPN controllerOrchestrator
SPN T-SRv6 nodeCloud private 
networkCloud private 
network controller
Computing 
center
Inband O&MSRv6 policy
BSID-01 BSID-02Computing user
SR-TP/MTN channel SRv6 policy
Intra-domain connection
End-to-end connection
End-to-end O&MSPN node in the 
existing networkFig. 1. Architecture 
of the T-SRv6 
solution.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 APR 2024
 23