Analysis on 5G-R Transport 
Technology
Background  
China State Railway Group issued the/uni00A0“National 
Railway Planning Outline for Transportation 
Powerhouse in New Era” in 2020, outlining the 
direction for advancing railway communication 
technologies. The outline emphasizes tasks such as 
developing independent and advanced 
technological equipment systems, improving the 
technological level of infrastructure equipment, 
and empowering smart development through new 
infrastructure. 
To implement China’s decisions on deploying 5G 
networks and other new infrastructure, the Group 
has set the goal of building a dedicated 5G mobile 
communication system for railway (5G-R). This 
large-scale 5G private network will support railway 
production and operations. As IP-based railway 
services grow, objectives for intelligent network 
operation, resource management, system 
maintenance, and service applications become 
clearer. New requirements have been raised for the 
next-generation railway transport network 
technology, including secure and reliable 5G-R 
communication for transportation-related 
production services, 5G-R slice isolation, transport of 
multiple existing services, and manageable railway 
private networks. 
To enhance 5G-R construction, the primary 
focus of the current transport network is selecting 
a suitable transport solution based on 5G-R’s key 
requirements and the development evaluation of 
railway multi-service transport. In the 2022 5G-R 
transport solution research project led by China 
Railway Signal & Communication Corp Ltd (CRSC), 
the IMT-2020 5G transport promotion group thoroughly analyzed SPN, IPRAN, and M-OTN 
solutions. The current SPN, based on new 
international standardized technical solutions  with 
deep integration of TDM and packet technologies, 
holds relative advantages and is expected to 
become the primary choice for 5G-R access 
backhaul and integrated railway transport. 
SPN 1.0 has been widely adopted by operators and 
is evolving to 2.0 for multi-service transport. 
Featuring /f_ine-granularity 10M FGU hard-isolation 
slicing with 10GE interfaces, E1/STM-1 CBR 
multi-service transports, mature coarse-granularity 
MTN hard-isolation slicing, high-precision inband 
OAM performance measurement, and manageable 
transport, it can transport 5G-R and traditional 
railway communications services from L1 to L3, while 
ensuring high-isolation, high-reliability, and 
manageable transport of existing SDH services. 
Major Challenges
Operators have put 5G into large-scale commercial 
use. 5G-R, as the private network technology for 
railways, faces diﬀerentiated demands for railway 
production and operation. The primary challenges 
include:
L3 networking with transport features:  5G-R 
inherits the transport network features of GSM-R 
and introduces /f_lexible L3 networking in addition 
to bandwidth requirements of the existing 
SDH/MSTP transport network. It maintains 
SDH/MSTP hard isolation, high reliability, 
manageability and controllability, along with 
other transport features like L3 bidirectional 
connection, comprehensive traﬃc planning, 
complete OAM and protection, addressing the 
 
 
Senior System 
Architect, ZTELiu Aihua
Transport Product 
Planning Manager, 
ZTELi Yunlong
 
 
 APR 2024
 29