In mines, dozens of application systems exist, 
spanning security, location, communication, video, 
and industrial control systems. The Energy Bureau 
has outlined basic requirements for application 
systems of coal enterprise informatization, each 
service system demanding speci/f_ic quality 
assurances:
The 5G system for mobile devices and personnel, 
above and under the mine, has comprehensive 
transmission requirements for large bandwidth, 
low latency, and extensive connectivity. Safety 
production monitoring networks must be 
independently constructed per policy mandates.
Remote control of the comprehensive mining 
plane requires low latency and jitter.
Various HD videos and VR/AR inspections require 
high bandwidth.
Various underground sensor systems require 
extensive connectivity. 
Each application system has multiple service 
connection points. The main station system may be 
located above the coal mine or within certain caverns 
inside it. Industrial control systems entail stringent 
safety requirements. The Energy Bureau clearly 
speci/f_ies that the network security of intelligent 
industrial control systems in fully mechanized mining 
operations should be at level two or above, with 
comprehensive consideration for data security in 
each application subsystem. Traditionally, meeing 
diverse service requirements involves separate 
system construction, leading to high costs and 
complex maintenance.
SPN Ethernet Ring Network Solution
To address the issues of high costs and complex 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Application of SPN Ethernet Ring 
Network in Smart Mine
Application Background and 
Requirements
he successive proposals of digital 
transformation strategies like Industry 
4.0, Industrial Internet, and “Made in 
China 2025” , along with the rapid 
development of new-generation information 
technologies such as the Internet of Things, big data, 
cloud computing, and 5G, have propelled China’s 
mining industry towards intelligence. With China’s 
rich coal resources and limited oil and gas reserves, 
the coal industry plays a pivotal role in the country’s 
economic development. To promote integrated 
development of intelligent technologies and coal 
mining, eight departments including the National 
Development and Reform Commission, Energy 
Administration, and Coal Supervision Bureau jointly 
issued the “Guiding Opinions on Accelerating the 
Intelligent Development of Coal Mines” in March 
2020. These opinions aim to ensure that by 2035, all 
types of coal mines will achieve intelligence, 
facilitating the creation of safe, eﬃcient, and 
environmentally friendly coal mines supported by 
intelligent perception, decision-making, and 
automated execution.
Intelligence in coal mining is the cornerstone 
technology for enhancing the coal industry’s quality 
development. It is of great signi/f_icance to boost the 
safety standards in coal mines and ensure a steady 
coal supply. Communication network infrastructure 
is integral to coal mine intelligence. Mines require 
diverse communication services, each with unique 
network requirements. Traditional mines generally 
deploy multiple physical /f_iber optic ring networks to 
meet the communication needs of various 
application systems.
 
T
Vice Director of 
Mechanical and 
Electrical Power 
Department,   Shaanxi 
Coal Chenghe Mining 
Co., LtdLi Haichuan
Deputy Director of 
Communication Branch 
of Tiandi (Changzhou) 
Automation Co., LtdMeng Wei
Industry Solution 
Architect, ZTETang Xiaolan
Slicing Packet Network Special Topic
32