Why Telco operator is looking into 
precision marketing services and why is 
VEON AdTech?
People who see ads want them to be relevant, 
customized, and based on customer insights. 
VEON has developed an elegant new way to 
deliver meaningful ads to the right consumers, at 
the right moments, on the right device. This 
improves the eﬀectiveness of marketing 
communication, boosts the performance of local 
businesses, and reduces information overload.
Using detailed customer knowledge, combined 
with the application of advanced mathematical 
models on the enriched Telco data, VEON is 
empowering local businesses to /f_lourish and local 
economies to grow.
In 2023, 2 billion ad impressions per month 
were served and 30 billion ad impressions per 
month were delivered through VEON AdTech 
services.
How VEON AdTech is approaching this 
customer need?
In order to enhance performance of local 
businesses, VEON AdTech combines  Telco-data-based 
customer insights and advanced mathematical 
models. Today, VEON manages 31 petabytes of 
customer data. 28 TB of data is loaded daily, and 
2.7 million data messages per second are 
streamed in real-time.
Using anonymized traﬃc data, VEON AdTech 
is enabling local businesses to communicate with their customers in the most eﬃcient and 
accurate format through precision marketing 
instruments:
VEON AdTech enables local entrepreneurs to 
attract new customers through highly 
targeted communication. All customer 
communications are highly customized and 
targeted to the “segment of one”. 
Customer communications are delivered not 
only through the global advertisers (META, 
Google, Telegram, and TikTok), but most 
importantly through locally relevant channels 
(VEON’s own applications, local websites) 
and SMS. 
VEON provides local businesses with the 
ability to measure the eﬀectiveness of their 
communication campaigns in real time. No 
more “spray and pray” and waste of 
advertisement budgets.
This is paramount for local economies, and 
especially for small businesses, for whom VEON 
AdTech is often the most eﬀective advertising 
channel utilizing state-of-the-art technologies.
How does your innovation streamline, 
simplify or enhance the user experience?/uni00A0  
VEON AdTech’s geo-analytics uses big data 
from anonymized traﬃc to optimize locations and 
opening hours for retailers. The service has been 
successfully used at Samarkand Darvoza, one of 
Uzbekistan's largest shopping centers. 
The project showed that of the 18,000 people 
 
 
“VEON has developed an elegant way to deliver meaningful ads to the right consumers, at the 
right moments, on the right device,” says George Held, CEO of VEON AdTech, who discusses how the 
company’s digital marketing services empower local businesses and enhance user experience, at the 
ZTE 5G Summit & User Congress 2023 in Thailand. VEON, a global digital operator serving nearly 160 
million customers in six dynamic markets, is addressing the growing digital advertising opportunity 
in its markets by establishing a dedicated AdTech company in April 2023, headquartered in Tashkent, 
Uzbekistan. VEON AdTech works with VEON’s digital operators and supports the VEON Group in 
providing highly targeted digital marketing services based on machine-learning algorithms building 
on VEON companies’ proximity to their customers.
 03 APR 2024