VPN Solution for Electric Power 
Service Transport
The emergence of 5G VPN slicing technology 
allows services from diﬀerent power network zones 
to be transported through multiple logical networks 
overlaid on a single physical network.
When planning network slicing to meet various 
service requirements, dedicated and 
resource-exclusive network slices are created for 
production control zone services, utilizing resource 
block (RB) reservation and 5G QoS identi/f_ier (5QI) 
priority scheduling at the wireless side, metro 
transport network (MTN) slicing at the transport side, 
and a dedicated user plane function (UPF) for core 
network isolation. Management information zone 
services are logically separated from other B2B 
services and public-network services through 5QI 
priority scheduling, VPN isolation, and 
industry-network UPF sharing. See Table 1 for the 
implementation scheme.
Considering the requirements of electric power 
services for /f_ined-grained bandwidth and hard 
isolation, we can deploy /f_ine granularity units (FGUs) 
supporting a minimum of 10M bandwidth, based on 
the 5G bandwidth slicing speci/f_ication of the MTN1.0 
standard, to carry control/protection-class 
high-security services (Fig. 1).
Services in Security Subzones III and IV can share a 
VPN and be carried by a group-customer hard slice in 
the existing network, while services in Security Subzones I and II can be carried by a dedicated VPN 
through FGU slices that can /f_lexibly allocate N×10M 
bandwidth. In shared large-network hard slicing, slice 
services are scheduled based on priority. Whether a 
slice service uses a dedicated VPN or shares one with 
others depends mainly on IP address con/f_licts and 
the necessity for independent management, 
operation and maintenance.
According to listed service requirements and 
transport slice characteristics, the VPN can be 
designed as follows: For services in production 
control zones (Security Subzones I and II), MTN hard 
slices (including /f_ine-grained slices) are hard-isolated 
from management information zones (Security 
Subzones III and IV time slots). For services in Security 
Subzones I and II, an L3 VPN using SR tunnel of the 
MTN client channel or an L2 VPN using MPLS tunnel 
of an MTN subclient can be created. Depending on 
network conditions, they may also utilize a 
soft-isolated VPN on the MTN hard-slice channel. 
Services in management information zones (Security 
Subzones III and IV) can be transported via 
soft-isolated VPN on an MTN hard slice.
Practices of 5G VPN with State 
Grid Jiangsu
In August 2022, China Mobile Nanjing Branch, in 
collaboration with ZTE and State Grid Jiangsu, 
successfully tested and validated power production 
control services such as diﬀerential protection and 
 APR 2024
 27