Development of SPN Technology
RLLC, eMBB and mMTC are key 5G 
application scenarios, with slicing and 
edge computing emerging as native 
technological features. In response to 
these new features, China Mobile introduces the 
concept of “lossless + eﬃcient and /f_lexible” transport, 
and partners with the domestic industry to build a 
new-generation transport network architecture known 
as slicing packet network (SPN).
SPN integrates TDM and packet networks, supports 
L0 to L3 capabilities, and oﬀers advantages such as large 
bandwidth, low latency, network slicing, /f_lexible 
connection, high-precision synchronization, and uni/f_ied 
management and control. It minimizes network 
investments by reusing the Ethernet industry chain and 
achieves ultra-large bandwidth, addressing the issue of 
end-to-end eﬃcient and lossless hard isolation 
transmission tailored to large 5 Gbps granularities. The SPN device using MTN channel cross-connection excels 
in performance with a single-node forwarding latency 
as low as 2.784 µs and ±5 ns time synchronization 
precision. Its slice isolation capability demonstrates 
minimal jitter (0.277 µs) before and after network 
congestion, which almost has no eﬀect on the service. 
China Mobile has successfully deployed 400,000 SPN 
devices for 5G network backhaul since 2019, showcasing 
reliable and eﬃcient operation.
In the thriving landscape of 5G vertical industries, 
government and enterprise services, and computing 
networks, SPN has transitioned into the SPN 2.0 era. This 
evolution brings increased slice granularity, enhanced 
service perception, /f_lexible connection, ubiquitous 
access, intelligent O&M, and energy-saving 
technologies. A key aspect of SPN 2.0 is the introduction 
of SPN /f_ine granularity unit (FGU). This innovation 
primarily addresses the demands for isolation, security, 
and reliability in /f_ine-grained service transport in typical 
scenarios like government private lines, /f_inancial private 
 
 
 
 
USPN 2.0 Private Line: Creating 
Digital Intelligence Future
Technical Manager and Chief 
Researcher, China Mobile 
Research InstituteHan Liuyan
Chief Expert of CMCC and Director of 
Department of Fundamental Network 
Technology, China Mobile Research InstituteLi Han
In the evolving information industry, the surging demand for private lines, ranging from high-speed to 
low-speed TDM lines, necessitates a versatile solution. The industry’s digital transformation mandates networks 
to deliver ultra-high-quality services, reduce costs, and enhance eﬃciency. SPN private lines, with ﬂexible slicing 
options, cater to diverse service forms, meeting not only bandwidth and quality requirements but also addressing 
the comprehensive needs of industries. SPN ensures eﬃcient bandwidth utilization, providing deterministic 
performance for TDM lines and large packet bandwidth. Moreover, enhanced management and control plane 
capabilities, coupled with intelligence, enable fast provisioning and visual performance, better meeting customer 
demands.
 
 
 
 
 
APR 2024 
 11