requirements of various industry applications. 
Eﬃcient Forwarding to Give Full Play to Existing 
Network Capabilities
Due to its hierarchical architecture, cross-domain 
SRv6 uses two types of packet encapsulation: 
end-to-end SRv6 and intra-domain encapsulation. In 
the T-SRv6 solution, end-to-end SRv6 employs 
general SRH encapsulation for interworking with 
heterogeneous networks. Within the SPN domain, 
T-SRv6 uses SR-TP label stack or MTN frame 
encapsulation. Given the SPN’s strict constraint paths, 
SR-TP encapsulation involves a 4-bytes constraint 
label at each hop, enhancing encapsulation 
eﬃciency through label stripping during forwarding. 
In contrast, hop-by-hop SRv6 encapsulation includes 
a 16-byte constraint label along with an additional 48 
bytes for IPv6 header and SRH header encapsulation. 
Therefore, hop-by-hop SRv6 exhibits signi/f_icantly 
lower encapsulation eﬃciency compared to the 
T-SRv6 solution. Although G-SRv6 utilizes the header 
compression technology to reduce per-hop 
constraint encapsulation to 4 bytes like T-SRv6, its 
encapsulation eﬃciency remains relatively low due 
to IPv6 header and SRH encapsulation overhead. 
Fig. 2 compares encapsulation eﬃciency in diﬀerent 
packet lengths, using a 10-layer constraint label as a 
reference. 
 
 
Enhanced encapsulation eﬃciency not only 
boosts eﬀective bandwidth utilization but also 
improves forwarding performance. This avoids 
performance degradation  caused by the need for 
internal chip processing when encapsulated bytes 
exceed the processing capacity of the device chip.
Bidirectional Same Path to Meet Application Needs 
of Delay-Symmetric Industry
In the T-SRv6 solution, transport network 
technology features are reserved in the SPN network. 
The forwarding paths of SR-TP and MTN channel are 
bidirectionally the same. Moreover, the protection 
mechanism implements bidirectional protection 
switching through the APS protocol to ensure that 
the forwarding paths are bidirectionally the same 
after the switching. This approach oﬀers natural 
advantages for certain industrial applications, like 
grid diﬀerential protection signals, which demand 
bidirectional delay symmetry. 
Agile Deployment for Rapid Computing Service 
Provision
In the T-SRv6 solution, only edge nodes in the SPN 
network need to support T-SRv6 capability, with no 
need to upgrade forwarding nodes. In a typical cloud 
service activation scenario, the SPN network simply 
adds a pair of termination devices connected to the 
Fig. 2. Encapsulation 
eﬃciency comparison 
between T-SRv6 and 
hop-by-hop 
SRv6/G-SR6.
0.000.200.400.600.801.00
128 256 512 1518Encapsulation eﬃciency comparison
T-SRv6 encapsulation eﬃciency (/f_irst node)
T-SRv6 encapsulation eﬃciency (tail node)
Hop-by-hop SRv6 encapsulation eﬃciency
Hop-by-hop G.SRv6 encapsulation eﬃciency
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Slicing Packet Network Special Topic 
24 