Orchestrator
Cloud private network controllerSPN controller T-SRv6 domain
SR-TPSPN
SRv6 policyT-SRv6 node T-SRv6 node
T-SRv6 END.BXC extensionCloud private network
SRv6 policyCentral computing
Fig. 2. SPN 2.0 
T-SRv6 transport 
solution.
an intelligent closed-loop system solution for service 
quality assurance, and successfully veri/f_ied this 
solution on ZTE’s existing intelligent management 
and control system, ZENIC ONE (UME). This solution 
changes manual and passive O&M to automatic and 
active O&M in some scenarios, increasing network 
maintenance eﬃciency and service security, reducing 
customer complaint rates, and improving customer 
satisfaction.
Moreover, the industry has begun to harness the 
power of native AI in SPN devices to create an 
intelligent energy-saving solution. AI is used to adapt 
to the tidal traﬃc patterns of the existing network, 
collect network data in real time and analyze service 
load changes. Multi-layer energy-saving solutions 
have been developed at the chip, module, board, 
and network levels to achieve intelligent power 
saving while strictly guaranteeing the transmission 
performance of the transport network. This 
innovative intelligent energy-saving solution has 
been piloted and tested in China Mobile’s existing 
network in 2022. Preliminary veri/f_ication results 
indicate an energy-saving eﬀect of 15%. 
SPN 2.0 Technology Progress
SPN technology has been applied on a large scale 
in China, with smooth progress in both domestic 
and international standardization eﬀorts. The 
standard on SPN 1.0 was released by China Communications Standards Association (CCSA) in 
2021, while the ITU-T MTN standards, including 
G.8310, G.8312, G.8321, G.8331, and G.8350, were all 
released by September 2022. Currently, CCSA is in 
the process of releasing standards for SPN 2.0 FGU. 
The enterprise standards for miniaturized SPN and 
computing-network SPN of China Mobile have 
basically been formulated. Additionally, ITU-T has 
approved FGU as a new work item. Complemented 
by the drafts of IETF series standards, SPN 2.0 is 
expected to further enrich the SPN standards 
system.
With the application of SPN products in the 
industrial sector, the Alliance of Industrial Internet in 
China has released a research report that 
summarizes SPN's application in industrial scenarios. 
The 5G transport group of IMT-2020(5G) Promotion 
Group's 2022 research report on 5G-R transport 
technology and network management & control 
solution has identi/f_ied SPN as the most preferred 
technology. In 2022, the SPN 2.0 solution was 
awarded the “Most Innovative Network Slicing Case” 
at the Network X held by Informa in Netherlands, 
highlighting the global recognition of SPN 
technology. As the SPN 2.0 technologies and 
solutions continue to be adopted by operators and 
integrated into industrial private networks, SPN 
technology is poised to enter a new stage of 
development, empowering various industries and 
shaping an intelligent digital future.
 
 
 
 
 
APR 2024 
 17