private networks like power, subway, high-speed rail, 
and mining. Mature 5G-R transport industry chains 
are now available. 
Considering the primary challenges outlined for 
5G-R transport network and the current 
development roadmap of transport network 
technologies, adopting an SPN-based 5G-R solution 
oﬀers the following advantages:
Building an end-to-end 5G-R backhaul L3 network 
with SPN, enabling soft/hard-isolation slicing for 
5G services, and achieving manageable and 
controllable private network services.
Supporting E1/STM-1 CBR transport through SPN 
TDM hard isolation channels,  enabling the 
comprehensive transmission of both 5G-R and 
railway production services.
Utilizing SPN’s standard independence and 
industry chain advantages to construct a 
next-generation integrated service access and 
transport platform for railways, supporting the 
overall strategy of becoming a 5G-R transportation 
powerhouse.
From the perspective of overall 5G-R construction 
objectives, SPN 2.0 technical standards and products 
align well with its transport construction 
requirements, oﬀering advantages in technical 
capabilities. Currently, China State Railway Group is 
conducting a range of 5G-R veri/f_ication tests, with 
ZTE SPN actively cooperating. ZTE has prioritized 
meeting the 5G-R transport requirements with SPN 
2.0 in product planning and R&D, contributing to the 
development of smart railways. 
packet convergence. Figure 1 outlines the 
development of the transport technology route. 
These three transport technologies vary in their 
support for 5G-R transport.
M-OTN still employs dedicated OTN interfaces and 
oﬀers TDM hard isolation slicing, but lacks 5G 
backhaul applications and L3 networking.
IPRAN 2.0 supports L3 networking but lacks 
suﬃcient enhanced capabilities in the transport 
network, including TDM hard isolation and various 
manageable and controllable features.
SPN boasts both TDM hard isolation and L3 
networking capabilities. It has carried 5G services 
on a large scale, oﬀering rich manageable and 
controllable features. 
Operators have also carried out performance 
comparison tests for three transport technologies in 
addition to technology analysis. The test data 
analysis shows that SPN leads in key performance 
indexes that support 5G and integrated service 
transport (Fig. 2). 
The IMT-2020 5G Transport Promotion Group’s 
research report on 5G-R transport solutions shows 
that among the three options, SPN has superior 
technical satisfaction. In the recent 5G-R technical 
selection test, ZTE’s SPN successfully completed all 
test requirements. 
The ITU-T has released international standards for 
SPN 1.0 and completed the establishment of 
formulation of G.fgMTN standards for SPN 2.0 FGU. 
Over 400,000 SPN devices are deployed in existing 
networks and are increasingly used in production 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.2720
0510152025SPN
IPRANLatency change loaded with 
background stream (us)Slice isolation test
Single-node forwarding 
latency (us)
6055.4
24.78
2.784SPN
PTN
OTN40
20
0MTN channel latency test
Single-node time accurancy (ns)
12.2
10.77SPN
PTN
OTN15
10
5
03.9SPN high-precision 
synchronization test
Fig. 2. Key performance 
index testing for three 
transport technologies.
APR 2024
31 
