Fig. 1. SPN 2.0 
FGU-based SPN 
private line 
transport solution.
SRv6 programmable architecture. At the same time, 
ZTE and China Mobile have also submitted a draft at 
the IETF SPRING working group. The pilot tests of the 
phase-1 T-SRv6 transport solution were successfully 
completed in the existing network of China Mobile in 
September 2022.
Native Computing Power and AI
In addition to the evolution of computing-network 
convergence services, SPN 2.0 also focuses on utilizing 
native computing power and AI capabilities to improve 
the intelligence and adaptability of SPN. As a 
deployment form of hyper edge computing (HEC), the 
built-in lightweight AI computing power of SPN 2.0 has 
been successfully piloted to provide computing and 
network convergence services for ToB industry 
applications. In September 2022, China Mobile and ZTE 
jointly completed the /f_irst pilot of the Cloud SPN 
computing-network convergence solution in 
Changzhou, Jiangsu province. This pilot facilitated the 
upgrade from the traditional quality inspection to the 
AI-enabled one in industrial manufacturing and will be 
promoted in the future.
In terms of SPN 2.0 management and control with 
AI, the industry has set the   autonomous level 
improvement goal,  providing a continuously evolving 
intelligent SPN management and control solution. In 
2022, ZTE and China Mobile Liaoning jointly launched access transport technology for building the 5G-R 
next-generation railway integrated transport 
network. 
Evolution of Computing-Network 
Convergence Services
The development of China Mobile’s computing 
power network technologies has spurred the 
demand for SRv6 technology evolution in metro 
SPN. ZTE and China Mobile has proposed the 
T-SRv6 solution based on the characteristics of SPN 
networks. T-SRv6 accurately binds SRv6 services 
with the SPN slicing channels by extending the 
programmable END.BXC function of SRv6. This 
solution combines standard SRv6 technology with 
transport slicing technology, creating an SRv6 
solution with transport features aligned with the 
requirements of new computing power networks 
such as hard isolation, zero packet loss, 
deterministic latency, and high-quality 
diﬀerentiated slicing services. Through the 
implementation of the T-SRv6 solution, SPN 2.0 
oﬀers the open slicing capability, agile end-to-end 
SRv6 interconnection, high quality, diﬀerentiated 
service, and programmable features.  The T-SRv6 
solution is illustrated in Fig. 2.
ZTE has completed the R&D of the key END.BXC 
function extension of T-SRv6 based on the standard 
Small 
SPNSPNSPN SPN SPN SPN
SPN
SPN SPNSPN SPN
SPN SPN SPN SPN
Metro /f_ixed FGU private lineCore & aggregation Backbone Core & aggregation Access
Metro 5G FGU private lineAccess
End-to-end FGU private lineMetro controller Backbone domain controller Metro controllerIntra-province cross-domain 
controller/orchestrator Slicing Packet Network Special Topic
16 