ubiquitous but distinct requirements for 
data processing and circulation. As you 
know, ChatGPT is a heated product that 
has triggered the AIGC boom globally. 
Also, challenges are posed in addressing 
the slowdown of Moore’s Law, closing the 
gap to the Shannon Limit, pursuing green 
and sustainable growth, and guaranteeing 
digital security. Against this backdrop, ZTE 
focuses on/uni00A0 key underlying technologies, 
infrastructure, and applications, and promotes/uni00A0
physical-digital integration, computing and 
network convergence (CNC), and higher 
eﬃciency of production and transaction. By 
doing so, we aim to build phygital DNA for 
faster iteration and innovation, ultimately 
reshaping the entire society.
As for key underlying technologies, the 
top priority is to achieve breakthroughs in 
terms of chipset, component and material, 
and algorithm and architecture. They are the 
foundation of innovation, and decide how 
far we can go in capability and eﬃciency 
improvement, as well as boundary extension 
and technology integration. In this respect, 
ZTE is taking /f_irm steps and making consistent 
eﬀorts, to pursue excellence even when 
tackling the hardest challenges.
Just like the brain of a human being or the urrently, the digital infrastructure 
in China, especially dual-gigabit 
networks and computing 
power, has developed into a 
mature phase. Consumers are shifting from 
voice and data communications to intelligent 
and integrated information services tailored 
to speci/f_ic scenarios, such as/uni00A0 /f_iber to the 
room (FTTR), intelligent cockpits, virtual-real 
fusion, and low-altitude economy. In addition, 
industrial digitalization has entered a crucial 
stage, with problems emerging from both the 
demand and supply sides. For example, on the 
demand side, there are diﬃculties in service 
integration, high management costs, and 
barriers to service innovations. On the supply 
side, how can we strike a balance between 
high requirements and low costs, fragmented 
scenarios and large-scale application, as well 
as heavy investments and slow monetization? 
The good news is, driven by such problems, 
we are /f_inding a way out with technological 
breakthroughs and collaboration. ICT is 
iterating at a fast pace, with signi/f_icant 
technological innovations occurring 
frequently, such as 5G-Advanced, 6G, FTTR, 
400G OTN, heterogeneous computing, and 
modern data centers.
This is an era of data explosion, with CZTE CEO Xu Ziyang: 
Convergence and Innovation—Build 
Phygital DNA for Faster Growth
Editor's Note: ZTE CEO Xu Ziyang delivered keynote speeches at the "Digital First Networks" session and 
the GTI Summit Shanghai. During his speeches, Mr. Xu shared ZTE's insights and practices in this digital era.
06Executive Insights