The application server (APP) is a system 
portal that provides users with operation 
interface and entrance. The auto con/f_iguration 
server (ACS) is responsible for interacting 
with STBs and accessing database resources. 
The /f_ile server (FS) stores, upgrades and 
downloads version /f_iles. The database 
(DB) centrally stores all system data. 
The northbound interface management 
(NIM) module receives instructions from 
external systems and delivers its processing 
results back to them. The interface can be 
customized. 
The STB management platform brings 
value primarily in the areas of equipment 
management, operation, and maintenance. 
Once authenticated by the platform, STBs can 
be remotely con/f_igured, modi/f_ied and queried 
for parameters, supporting both individual 
and batch operations. Individual and batch 
restarts as well as factory settings restoration 
can be performed on STBs as required. The rawing upon years of 
experience in device and 
business management system 
development and utilization, 
ZTE has launched a high-performance and 
open set-top box (STB) management platform 
tailored for smart Android STBs. The platform 
primarily utilizes the TR069 protocol family 
to interact with STBs, enabling remote 
parameter con/f_iguration, data collection and 
fault diagnosis. Additionally, it incorporates 
protocols like HTTP to support the upload and 
download of STB version /f_iles and log /f_iles. It 
also provides interfaces for integration with 
customers or third-party systems to enable 
corresponding service functionalities.
The software architecture of the STB 
management system consists of three layers: 
the equipment management layer (including 
FS and ACS), the business management layer 
(APP), and the service management layer 
(NIM), as shown in Fig. 1. Smart STB Management Platform
Senior Engineer of ZTE 
Wireline R&D PlanningOuyang YonghuiD
Fig. 1. Software 
architecture of the 
STB management 
system.DBBOSS
HTTP (S)
HTTP (S) TR069/XMPP
ZTE TMS Agent.apk
  Android OS
STBService management layer
Business management layer
Equipment management layerNorthbound interface management (NIM)
APP
File server (FS)PC
Web
portal B/S
Auto con/f_iguratrion server (ACS)
22New Video Ecosystem Special Topic