WThis marks a golden era for UHD video business, 
positioning China as the largest UHD market and 
paving the way for ongoing evolution towards 8K 
and higher resolutions.
On the one hand, UHD video service oﬀers a 
rich and diverse landscape. 8K UHD video has 
been widely applied in live sports broadcasting, 
artistic performances, and cultural tourism live 
streaming. Users can experience the /f_inest detail 
of live events on the large screen, with more 
realistic visuals, stunning eﬀects, immersive 
scenes, and impressive performances. 8K UHD 
/f_ilms and TV shows deliver an immersive viewing 
experience, allowing viewers to enjoy videos 
in amazing new ways. Leveraging its ultra-high 
resolution and lifelike imagery, 8K UHD video 
is poised to empower more industries such as 
industrial manufacturing and telemedicine. 
On the other hand, VR has become an 
important form of UHD video and a signi/f_icant 
addition to the era of “Three-Gigabit” 
connectivity. VR oﬀers its greatest value through 
immersive viewing experience. With the 
continuous advancements in technology, VR has 
matured considerably. VR headsets now oﬀer 
separate decoding, and VR display terminals 
have become lightweight. The performance of 
terminal chips has improved signi/f_icantly, greatly 
reducing dizziness in VR viewing. Leveraging the 
8K /f_ield of view (FOV) technology, even with just 
4K decoding capabilities, it is possible to play 8K 
VR videos, resulting in enhanced clarity of VR 
content. VR can simulate 360-degree surround 
sound eﬀects. The 2D-to-3D conversion 
technology enables the transformation of a vast 
amount of 2D content into VR, thereby enriching 8K UHD Video Services 
Boost Gigabit Growth
Planning Manager, ZTE 
DHome Products Sha Junjieith the advancement to 
implement the national 
strategy of building a cyber 
power and a digital leader,
China has constructed the world’s largest 
information and communication network. Its 
expansion of /f_iber broadband and construction 
of gigabit cities have established the capacity 
to reach over 500 million households. 
With the booming gigabit broadband, the 
/f_iber-to-the-room (FTTR) solution proposed 
in the industry is eﬀectively addressing the 
connectivity bottleneck within households. The 
advent of 8K technology has also opened up new 
changes and possibilities for the development 
of ultra HD (UHD) video services. Leveraging its 
abundant resources, ZTE has capitalized on its 
own strengths to facilitate the mutual promotion 
of gigabit networks and services, thereby assisting 
operators in their gigabit operations. 
Gigabit UHD Video Service: Building a 
Solid Pipeline Foundation for Operators
26New Video Ecosystem Special Topic