services, user viewing behavior and basic 
information are collected to create user 
pro/f_iles. With a focus on maintaining 
data security, precise advertisements 
are accurately delivered to users (Fig. 1). 
Using “digital prompts” in live broadcast 
signals, terminal devices seamlessly 
replace ads in the original video with 
personalized ads. These “addressable 
ads” can extend the time viewers spend 
on watching ads while minimizing the 
impact on user experience. 
TV ads can bring more business 
revenue and enhanced experience:
Improve the relevance of ads to viewers. 
Targeted TV ads can be tailored to the 
interests, behaviors and demographics 
of individual viewers, oﬀering them a 
more attractive experience. With the 
relevance improved, users may be more 
interested in these ads and are willing to 
spend more time watching them.
Provide better control over ads 
delivery. Targeted advertising can have 
a better control over the broadcast 
timing and duration of ads, creating 
a better advertising eﬀect. It can 
choose to broadcast ads on speci/f_ic 
programs, at a certain time of a day, or 
on speci/f_ic channels.
Improve ads inventory management 
for TV operators. With targeted TV ads, 
TV operators can optimize their ads 
inventory to provide viewers with more 
relevant ads. This enables increased 
viewer engagement rates and delivers 
a better viewing experience.
Bring a higher return on investment 
(ROI). Compared with ordinary ads, 
targeted TV ads can eﬀectively drive 
conversion and bring a higher ROI for 
advertisers. In addition, advertisers can 
save costs by avoiding wasting money 
on irrelevant ads.
Create a larger share of revenue. 
With ads matched precisely with user preferences, viewers spend more 
time watching these ads, enabling 
TV operators to gain a larger share of 
revenue from advertising.
Gaming
The rapid growth of video services 
has also brought new innovations and 
opportunities for online games. Compared 
with conventional game consoles and 
computers, ordinary home video terminals 
or set-top boxes fall short in performance 
and operability when used for game 
playing. Usually, they cannot eﬀectively 
support complex computing and gaming 
operations, and purchasing an extra handle 
or joystick is an additional expense.
To deal with these diﬃculties, game 
developers have designed some new 
models to improve user experience. Users 
can pair their smartphones with STBs 
or smart TVs via Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, 
and instantly convert the smartphones 
into remote controls (Fig. 2). The games 
are designed mainly for home users for 
entertainment and intelligence, using 
simple operations to deliver a single-player 
or multiplayer gaming experience. 
This new gaming experience provides 
many opportunities for operators. Fig. 2. Gaming on TV 
with smartphones 
as gamepads.
Player 1
Score: 30Player 2
Score: 15
15AUG 2023