new technology on services.
Introduction of AI Capabilities
ChatGPT has gained great popularity 
as an AI application, reaching 100 million 
monthly active users in only two 
months after its launch. This success 
shows the potential of AI technology 
to drive traﬃc. Currently, many Chinese 
companies are stepping up eﬀorts to 
launch similar AI systems. We should 
seize this opportunity to introduce 
AI to IPT V services and optimize 
application scenarios for home users. Here 
are some areas where AI can be integrated 
into IPTV services.
Smart elderly care:  AI can play a 
crucial role in addressing the needs of 
senior citizens who live alone or having 
diﬃculty in getting medical care. By 
guiding them in identifying their health 
priorities, enabling online interaction 
with doctors via TV sets, and reminding 
them to take medicine, AI makes it 
much easier for senior citizens to access 
medical care, greatly increasing the 
service value for them.
Digital humans:  Digital humans have 
become increasingly popular. When 
combined with conversational models 
like ChatGPT, they can become smarter 
and more human-like, enabling new 
services like elder care, child companion 
and emotional guidance. They can 
also be utilized as virtual idols, virtual 
spokespersons of a company or a brand, 
or customer service robots, interacting 
with customers in a more immersive way 
and expanding business models. 
A I - p o w e r e d e d u c a t i o n a n d 
entertainment:  Generative AI technology 
experienced explosive growth in 2022. 
For education and entertainment, 
applications such as AI avatars, AI 
painting and AI video products, can 
greatly enhance user interaction and revitalize traditional value-added 
services.
Upgrade Hardware of Terminal 
Devices
The growth of services reply heavily 
on hardware development. In order 
to support the future IPTV service 
development, upgrading the hardware 
of terminal devices should be the top 
priority. The next-generation terminal 
hardware needs improvement in the 
following aspects: 
Gigabit network access:  Enabling 
Gigabit wired access and Wi-Fi 6 
wireless access can guarantee high 
bandwidth and low latency for video 
services like XR.
Video processing capabilities:  
Enhancing video processing capabilities 
is essential to support multi-channel 
4K decoding, binocular 4K VR display, 
UHD multi-view mode, or even 8K 
decoding and display, allowing users to 
experience more and better new video 
services.
AI processing capability:  Integrating an 
AI processor, such as a neural processing/uni00A0
unit/uni00A0 (NPU), is becoming increasingly 
important for IPTV terminals. To 
eﬀectively support AI-powered services, 
the NPU should deliver a processing 
performance of at least 3 trillion 
operations per second (TOPS).
The development of mobile phones has 
shown that advancements in hardware 
processing capabilities can facilitate the 
proliferation of new services. Similarly, for 
IPTV to overcome current challenges, it 
needs to accelerate hardware con/f_iguration 
upgrades to optimize its processing 
capabilities. This will enable IPTV services 
to attract more attention and investment 
within the industry, thus entering a new 
development stage.
13AUG 2023