chose to keep existing set-top boxes (STBs) 
from four diﬀerent vendors. ZTE designed 
diﬀerent migration solutions based on the 
performance and brands of STBs. To reduce 
the extra BOSS interconnection workload for 
the operator during video platform 
migration, ZTE developed custom migration 
tools to synchronize and migrate user data, 
content data, and call detail record (CDR) 
data between the old and new platforms. 
ZTE also implemented customized rollback 
and backup redundancy mechanism to 
maximize data security and guarantee 
customer experience. With the help of these 
migration tools, all the subscribers were 
successfully migrated to ZTE’s new platform. 
Conclusion 
In November 2022, ZTE’s video platform 
passed the pre-acceptance test (PAC) by Türk 
Telekom. The two parties celebrated this 
success together and con/f_irmed video 
services as a key strategic service for further 
development. 
With the successful commercial 
deployment of TV services, ZTE will support 
Türk Telekom in the re/f_ined operation of 
content services. By deploying a new video 
platform, ZTE will collaborate with Türk 
Telekom to explore innovative services such 
as smart venue and VR. Moreover, ZTE will 
help Türk Telekom further implement 
wholesale and B2B CDN solutions, enabling 
them to explore new business models in 
more industries.the production platform. By employing 
eﬃcient project management solutions, 
ZTE aligned closely with Türk Telekom's 
requirements. The sub-module teams 
held meetings two or three times a week 
with the customer’s technical leaders to 
clarify requirements and provide progress 
reports. This allowed for prompt detection 
of any problems or missing information, 
facilitating resources allocation for problem 
solving. The project staﬀ in Turkey and 
ZTE’s R&D headquarters arranged daily 
meetings both respectively and jointly 
to improve project transparency and 
address any bottlenecks eﬃciently. ZTE 
maintained comprehensive project archives 
including meeting records, discussions and 
technical documents to ensure traceability. 
ZTE addressed Türk Telekom’s 
requirements for CDN, client, service 
platform, big data, and migration from 
signing the project to its delivery by 
providing suitable solutions. ZTE also 
introduced services like big data analysis 
and processing, marketing strategy 
generation and release (including sales 
promotion and discounts), and advertising 
management, while actively embracing 
Google ecosystem to enable ARPU uplift for 
the operator. In terms of maintenance, ZTE 
provided customized migration tools, 
in-service software upgrades, CDN 
management platforms, and content 
multi-DRM encryption to facilitate smooth 
O&M for the operator. 
The migration was diﬃcult as the operator 
37AUG 2023