The Success of Project Delivery and 
Migration 
Türk Telekom has high requirements for 
project delivery and customization. As a 
world-leading provider of video solutions, 
ZTE provided an advanced video solution — 
Premium Video Platform (PVP) 2.0 — tailored 
to Türk Telekom’s speci/f_ic needs. With this 
solution, Türk Telekom’s project achieved the 
fastest delivery among platform 
replacement projects of similar scale in the 
global IPTV sector. 
During the solution design phase, ZTE 
designed a system capable of supporting 
2 million IPTV subscribers and 5 million OTT 
subscribers, based on Turkey’s subscriber 
growth potential. This solution provided 
access to over 10 types of terminals, including 
mobile phones, PCs, and smart TVs. 
ZTE successfully conducted the research 
on platform deployment, developed a 
migration solution, cut over data from the 
original platform, and migrated the STBs 
and OTT clients to the new platform. By 
June 2022, all 1.75 million subscribers on 
Türk Telekom’s TV platform were able to 
enjoy the new services, which included an 
elegant UI interaction, personalized content 
service, and smooth synchronization across 
diﬀerent terminals.
Throughout the project delivery process, 
ZTE collaborated closely with Türk Telekom, 
establishing four teams focusing on diﬀerent 
aspects of the project including client, CDN, 
service platform, and big data. The project 
had a delivery staﬀ of over 100, with more 
than 20 located in Turkey. Each sub-module 
team had its own project manager, 
engineering group, R&D group, and testing 
group, creating a stable team structure. 
To accelerate project progress, ZTE 
implemented a full project delivery 
procedure, involving collecting customer 
needs, initiating reviews, solution review, 
testing, task assignment review, staging 
platform testing, and ultimately delivering workshop speci/f_ically for the operator, and 
formed a team comprising experts from various 
/f_ields to cater to the requirements in the tender. 
Compared to the old platform, ZTE’s solution 
has introduced new features in /f_ive aspects: a 
private cloud container solution architecture; 
over 1,000 customized functions and 
interconnection with over 10 third parties; 
customized migration solution to release 
operator BOSS development workload; 
brand-new operation solution with a sales 
promotion system and targeted advertising 
solution to improve the operator’s revenue; and 
B2B wholesale functions to explore new 
business models for the operator. 
Despite the impact of the pandemic, in May 
2020, ZTE’s TV project team successfully 
performed a proof of concept (POC) with 
approximately 1,000 items. The team set a 
testing center in Nanjing and held a video 
conference with Türk Telekom’s team. Experts 
in Turkey, Spain and Serbia participated online 
in the testing and provided explanations. 
Through seven days of joint eﬀorts, ZTE 
successfully completed the testing and 
convincingly demonstrated its client design, 
platform service management, and operation 
and maintenance (O&M) capabilities to the 
customer. The eﬃcient testing arrangement 
also showcased ZTE’s project management 
capability. Türk Telekom highly recognized 
ZTE’s solution, and in the autumn of 2020, ZTE 
was selected for the video project. 
36Success Stories