revenue. They can also utilize gaming to 
create a more engaging and immersive 
user experience, establishing themselves 
as leaders in the evolving multimedia and 
entertainment market. 
Terminal Management System
As TV operators' business continues 
to grow, the diversity of terminal devices 
and services presents management 
challenges. However, TMS can oﬀer video 
service providers better analysis and help 
them learn their user viewing habits and 
preferred content. Through a user-friendly 
graphical interface, TMS presents the 
collected data to operators, enabling them 
to tailor their services to meet customer 
needs and deliver a better user experience 
(Fig. 3). 
More accurate positioning:  The 
booming video streaming service 
increases the risks of security 
vulnerabilities and cyber attacks. 
TMS can strengthen the security of 
video streaming service by providing 
secure communication channels and 
monitoring network traﬃc to prevent 
any signs of intrusion. It can also predict 
potential faults or problems in video 
streaming service through data analysis, 
helping the after-sales service team 
proactively solve these problems before 
they grow into major ones. In this 
way, it improves the overall customer 
experience while reducing downtime. 
More flexible deployment:  TMS can be 
deployed in public or private cloud to 
provide greater scalability and /f_lexibility. 
This means that video streaming service 
can be easily scaled or downsized to 
meet changing needs without having 
to invest heavily in hardware and 
long-term maintenance. 
More eﬀective support:  TMS can 
enable remote diagnosis and support 
for video services, and provide detailed customer feedback and analysis. While 
reducing the need for on-site after-sales 
service and hotline calls, it also helps to 
quickly identify and solve problems. In 
addition, TMS provides customers with 
self-service options such as resetting 
password, changing billing information, 
and managing preferences. While 
improving customer satisfaction, it 
reduces the workload of after-sales 
service personnel. 
By introducing TMS, operators can 
improve equipment management eﬃciency, 
enhance user experience, support business 
growth and improve security, thereby 
increasing their competitiveness and 
pro/f_itability. 
Conclusion 
With the fast growth of their business, 
operators face the need for more 
/f_ine-grained device and operational 
management. As user expectations for 
seamless experiences increase, there is a 
growing demand for greater service diversity 
and customer satisfaction. Leveraging the 
data generated from their operations to 
support existing and innovative business 
models will create tremendous opportunities 
for the development of operator video 
services. 
17AUG 2023