achieving the ultralong distance required by backbone 
networks—many thousands of kilometres—becomes 
highly challenging. This is especially true at higher 
capacity, as it’s also diminished by attenuation. And, 
as with capacity, new thinking is required so that 
backbone reach can continue expanding to meet 
growing Internet usage demands.
Various techniques can be deployed to yield 
moderate gains in achievable distance, but ZTE 
proposes that it’s only possible to increase the 
distance capability of 400G networks by up to 60% by 
combining three technology innovations:
A new module in 400G QPSK capable of handling 
1.2 terabits per second and is able to support up to 
130G baud rates
A 3D fusion package—a modelling tool that 
uni/f_ies design, engineering, electronics and 
manufacturing into a single software platform. This 
reduces internal connection distance and improves 
high-speed signal performance
ZTE’s new Flex Shaping 2.0 algorithm.
This solution was tested by China Mobile in 
a backbone connection simulation, following a 
route from Zhejiang to Guizhou. According to the 
companies, a distance of 2,808 km was achieved, and 
in an extreme veri/f_ication scenario the backbone 
achieved a reach of 5,616 km.
Energy Eﬃciency
Backbone capacity and distance improvements 
must not be delivered at the cost of higher energy 
usage per bit. Here also, ZTE claims that some 
new capabilities are coming into play: new optical 
modules can reduce gigabit energy in the backbone 
by 35%, from 0.275 W to 0.175 W per gigabit—not a 
bad start.
Accommodating the rapidly rising traﬃc from 
Internet usage, and doing so with a phased-in 
approach to performance enhancement and cost, 
isn’t a trivial task for network operators. 400G 
backbone represents the next horizon to reach if 
they’re to stay ahead of demand. It won’t be the last 
development in the /f_ield, but it does mean that the 
backbone can continue to provide shape, sturdiness 
and dependability to the overall network for some 
time to come.So, what are the criteria for building a 400G 
backbone? If we think of the backbone network 
as the highway of Internet connectivity, not only 
must it be ultrawide in terms of bandwidth, but 
also ultralong in terms of reach and more energy-
eﬃcient than previous iterations.
Ultrawide Capacity
Optical /f_ibre can be divided into several bands, 
with each being an independent channel to 
transmit a predetermined wavelength. According 
to ITU-T standards, single-mode /f_ibre in the range 
over 1,260 nanometres is divided into six bands.
C-band, known as the conventional band, shows 
the lowest signal loss and oﬀers advantages in 
long-distance transmission systems. As transmission 
distance increases, /f_ibre optic ampli/f_iers are used 
instead of optical-to-electronic-to-optical repeaters, 
so the C-band becomes more and more important. 
With the advent of dense wavelength division 
multiplexing, which allows multiple signals to share 
a single /f_ibre, the use of C-band has been expanded. 
It’s typically deployed in urban areas, as well as 
long-distance and submarine optical transmission 
systems.
L-band, known as the long-wavelength 
band, has the second-lowest wavelength loss, 
so can be used when C-band doesn’t meet the 
bandwidth needs. To deliver ultrawide 400G 
capacity, the backbone of the future will require 
the combination of C-band and L-band. Network 
solution provider ZTE claims that it’s the /f_irst to 
complete a network test of this combination to 
accommodate 400G backbone capacity.
Ultralong Distance
As a transmission technology, optical /f_ibre has 
many bene/f_its, but it’s prone to attenuation or loss 
as the light signal travels along the cabling. There 
are various factors that cause this, for example: 
intrinsic loss, owing to the characteristics of the 
/f_ibre, such as material absorption; light dispersion 
loss or structural defects; and extrinsic loss, based 
on operating conditions like connector loss or cable 
bending, as light prefers to travel in a straight line.
With longer /f_ibre, these losses can accumulate, so 
AUG 2023
41