Spain leads in FTTH deployments in 
Europe. What factors do you think 
have contributed to this significant 
growth?
/uni00A0
Spain was one of the /f_irst countries that 
started deploying FTTH in Europe with a /f_irm 
commitment to develop these networks by 
the main telecommunication companies and 
the government. This has allowed Spain to 
be in a quite privileged place and ranked 2nd 
in Europe in terms of /f_iber optic penetration 
level (73.5%) according to FTTH Council, but 
ranking as No. 1 country in both metrics, HP 
(home passed) and HC (home connected), for 
many years. Supportive regulation for FTTH 
roll outs and the /f_lexibility that the diﬀerent 
Public Administrations are developing, is 
also a key factor to speed up this technology 
adoption.
Another key singularity of the Spanish 
market is the number of registered local 
ISPs.
In Spain there are more than 3,500 
ISP licenses registered at CNMC (Spanish 
regulator), around 1,500 of them are already 
active. Most of these 1,500 are local ones, 
and have performed a key role in the 
proximity and customer centric strategy, 
specially in rural environments, where these 
companies focus their activity and business, 
bringing a high quality service by all means 
to those communities, based on their own 
local /f_iber roll outs.
Spanish people have full con/f_idence in /f_iber optic and, as soon as it is available in 
their homes, they do not hesitate to contract 
it because of all the advantages over other 
technologies.
From your perspective, what are the 
major challenges for the Spanish 
FTTH market, and how is Asteo 
addressing some of those issues?
Our market is a worldwide reference 
in terms of eﬀective execution of FTTH 
deployments, based on the reasons 
explained above, and as a consequence of 
this, the FTTH estimated coverage at national 
level reaches 90%. But, if we consider just 
rural coverage, the data decreases down to 
nearly 65% (FTTH Council sourcing). So, our 
main challenge is to connect any municipality 
by /f_iber to secure a proper connectivity 
that guarantees the needed foundation for 
the digitalization of this rural community, a 
strategic pillar for its future development.
Asteo has been born specially to support 
this, in our phase 1 we are connecting 
500 municipalities with less than 1,000 
inhabitants, and for connecting them we are 
building more than 1,900 km of backhaul 
(regional /f_iber to interconnect all these 
municipalities).
And to fully support this, there is also a 
big challenge at the Public Administration 
side to optimize the current administrative 
processes in order to speed up the civil 
works permits and licenses./uni00A0pain, one of the leading pioneers of /f_iber-to-the-home (FTTH) in Europe, has achieved a 
high /f_iber optic penetration. However, the rural areas in Spain still have inadequate 
broadband connectivity, which hampers their further development. “Asteo has been born 
specially to support this,” stated Pedro Abad, founder and CEO of Asteo Red Neutra, when 
discussing his company’s eﬀorts in bringing connectivity to rural Spain through FTTH services in an 
interview. Asteo Red Neutra is a wholesale FTTH operator that is focused on building ultra-modern 
FTTH and backhaul networks in rural environments. S
03AUG 2023