power consumption. Indirect evaporative 
cooling, extreme liquid cooling, and AI-driven 
management reduce the PUE of our modern 
data centers to 1.13. With TECS Cloud 
Foundation (TCF), the distributed precision 
cloud, computing resources are pulled from 
cloud, edge, and terminal levels to enable 
multi-service deployment and on-demand 
scheduling.
In terms of CNC and CPN, ZTE has 
developed a one-stop ICT solution 
integrating edge cloud. It features an 
IaaS/PaaS cloud technology stack, and 
supports heterogeneous computing as well 
as the uni/f_ied planning, building, and O&M of 
ICT infrastructure. As such, this solution has 
provided practical guidance for the evolution 
from edge computing to computing power 
networks.
Also, we actively explore computing and 
network synergy to build a bridge between 
the application layer and the network 
layer, so that the network can sense service 
demands and computing power resources, 
implement computing power routing, and 
realize on-demand scheduling/uni00A0across multiple 
resource pools.
In addition, ZTE is building/uni00A0an orchestration 
center featuring uni/f_ied and open APIs. It 
enables /f_lexible management in multi-vendor 
and multi-cloud environments, and ensures 
quality services that integrate “connectivity, 
computing, and digital capabilities”. In this 
way, we not only unlock new opportunities, 
but also empower the digital transformation 
of various industries in an agile and 
cost-eﬀective manner.
As industrial digitalization accelerates, we see 
higher production and transaction eﬃciency.
ZTE keeps working to improve production 
eﬃciency for its partners.
In the smart steelmaking plant of Ansteel, 
our/uni00A0URLLC technology for remote control of 
machinery/uni00A0 has been adopted on overhead 
cranes, achieving “/f_ive 9s” availability, a 100% 
increase in production eﬃciency, and a 20% 
reduction in labor costs.computing power, and the convergence of 
computing and network.
To enhance network performance, ZTE 
is dedicated to providing groundbreaking 
products and solutions.
The upgraded UniSite solution integrates 
lightweight devices such as the UBR series, A+P 
series, and broadband antennas, making it easy 
to deploy multi-mode and multi-band sites.
The 5G TSN solution provides deterministic 
connectivity with “/f_ive 9s” availability, 
guaranteeing a latency of less than 
5 milliseconds and a jitter within microseconds 
in industrial scenarios.
Our SBFD system has increased the uplink 
throughput to over 1.4 Gbps while reducing 
the end-to-end latency to 4 milliseconds for a 
single carrier.
Integrated sensing and communication 
(ISAC) base stations have boosted 
low-altitude economy and made smart 
transportation a reality.
Our RedCap technology ful/f_ills the needs 
of medium- and high-speed IoT scenarios at a 
lower cost, greatly broadening the application 
scope of 5G.
The 400G OTN solution enables ultra-long-
haul transmission, building the optical 
infrastructure for China's East-to-West 
Computing Resource Transfer Project.
The FTTR solution provides a whole-
home gigabit-plus broadband experience for 
every household.
On the way to level-4 autonomous 
networks, we are using digital twins to create 
mixed reality experiences and building 
intent-based networks for human-machine 
coordination, achieving end-to-end processing 
within seconds and closed-loop O&M across 
domains with self-X capabilities.
As for computing power infrastructure, 
ZTE provides a full range of server and 
storage products, including general-purpose 
servers, GPU servers/intelligent computing 
clusters, liquid-cooled servers, and all-/f_lash 
and hybrid /f_lash storage products. Cold plate 
liquid cooling is applied to further reduce 
08Executive Insights