crucial requirement for operators. 
Requirement
The STB ecosystem is categorized 
based on operating systems, primarily 
including AndroidTV, AOSP, RDK-V, 
and Linux/Ecos. From the operator’s 
perspective, a comparison of the 
advantages and disadvantages of each 
ecosystem is given in Table 1. 
Operators make dynamic choices 
for the ecosystem based on their own 
circumstances and business interests. For 
example, some operators initially choose 
AOSP but later opt for AndroidTV to 
incorporate premium content and service 
from Google. They hope that existing mid the /f_ierce competition 
landscape of the set-top 
box (STB) industry, various 
ecosystem manufacturers, 
including Google, operators, content 
providers, CA/ DRM vendors, and 
middleware vendors, engage in a dynamic 
game of cooperation and competition. 
They form multiple ecosystem factions, 
each relying on diﬀerent software 
operating systems to capture their 
respective market share. Operators, driven 
by their individual circumstances and 
commercial interests, continually adapt 
their ecosystem choices. Therefore, there 
is a growing need for STBs to support 
online upgrade and switching between 
diﬀerent ecosystems, which has become a Online Upgrade and Switching 
Scheme for Set-Top Box Ecosystem
Chief R&D Engineer of 
ZTE DHome ProductsLiu ChenggangA
Table 1. A comparison 
of the advantages and 
disadvantages of each 
ecosystem. Ecosystem
AndroidTV
AOSP
RDK-V
Linux/EcosAdvantages Disadvantages
Built on the Google ecosystem, it inherently provides 
users with a wide range of content options, including 
YouTube and Net/f_lix.
Based on the open Android system, it provides users 
with a rich choice of content. Operators have strong 
control over the ecosystem. 
The ecosystem matures rapidly and can provide users 
with a wealth of content choices such as YouTube 
and Net/f_lix. Operators have strong control over the 
ecosystem. 
It has obvious cost advantage. 
Operators have strong control over the ecosystem.Google dominates the ecosystem, while operators 
have little control. 
Frequent system updates lead to higher maintenance 
costs.
Unable to introduce Google’s premium applications 
and content, such as YouTube, Google Assistant, and 
Google App Store. 
Compared with Android TV, it falls short in content 
diversity and industry in/f_luence. 
Due to the low hardware con/f_iguration and the lack of 
ecological content and service, it can only provide 
basic live TV and video on demand (VOD). 
18New Video Ecosystem Special Topic