the deployment of functionalities. 
The STB management platform can be 
deployed on the local physical server or in the 
cloud, giving customers the /f_lexibility to choose. 
Figure 2 depicts a schematic diagram where 
load balancer (LB) ensures load balancing by 
distributing STBs to various ACS/FS instances. To 
ensure security and reliability, LB and DB/APP are 
con/f_igured with backups in active/standby mode. 
Additionally, if needed, geographic disaster 
recovery solutions can also be provided.  
ZTE supports customers in building their 
own STB management system. For customers 
with speci/f_ic needs, it can also provide 
software-as-a service (SaaS) solutions in a 
tenant model, reducing their investment costs.  
The STB management platform can enhance 
user viewing experience, increase user satisfaction, 
reduce after-sales costs and improve the eﬃciency 
for customers. Looking ahead, the platform 
will keep evolving to be more user-centric and 
intelligent, aiming to deliver even greater value to 
customers. platform enables /f_irmware upgrades for STBs 
either triggered by the platform itself or initiated 
by STBs. Additionally, various operations such 
as app installation, update, uninstallation, and 
cache clearing are supported for APK /f_iles.  
When system, service or network faults occur 
in the STB, the STB management platform can 
remotely diagnose and troubleshoot the faults. 
The supported diagnostic processes include 
ping diagnosis, traceroute diagnosis, speed 
testing and log reporting. The platform can 
initiate automatic diagnosis on the STB and 
report the results. It also supports intelligent 
analysis of logs. With user authorization, it can 
provide remote desktop and remote console 
for deep diagnosis. Remote desktop allows 
users to view the STB interface and operate it 
using a virtual remote control, similar to on-site 
operation. Remote console enables logging 
into the STB for ADB debugging. 
The STB management platform can also 
generate a variety of statistical reports, providing 
valuable support for customer operations. By 
collecting STB parameters, obtaining running 
information, as well as analyzing user behavior, 
the platform can generate reports across 
multiple dimensions. These reports include 
geographical distribution of STBs, trends 
in new user acquisition, online user rates, 
popular programs and applications, as well as 
information about the brands and models of TV 
sets and remote controllers connected to STBs. 
In the future, with the integration of a business 
intelligence (BI) analysis engine, there will be 
an increase in data mining capabilities and 
improved data presentation.  
The STB management platform supports 
the integration of third-party STBs. There are 
two main integration methods available. The 
/f_irst method involves third-party STBs in two 
ways. The third-party STB vendors develop 
their own integration using interfaces and 
protocols. The second method encompasses 
direct integration with ZTE’s STB management 
agent, as illustrated in Fig. 1. The second 
method is recommended as it can signi/f_icantly 
reduces the integration period and accelerate Fig. 2. Deployment 
diagram of the STB 
management platform.
Internet
...DB/APP-1
activeDB/APP-2
standby
LB-2
standby
FireWallLB-1
activeACS/FS-4
ACS/FS-3
ACS/FS-2
ACS/FS-1
23AUG 2023