also deliver excellent printing results. 
Halogen-Free STB Device
Halogens are harmful. Organic halogen 
compounds can cause cancer in the human body, 
and their low bio-degradation rates can lead to 
accumulation in ecosystem. Some volatile organic 
halides also have a signi/f_icant destructive eﬀect on 
the ozone layer, resulting in severe impacts on the 
the environment and human health. Therefore, 
halogen compounds are classi/f_ied as harmful 
chemicals to both humans and the environment, 
and their use is prohibited or limited. ZTE uses 
halogen-free ABS materials for structural 
components, and its primary suppliers also adhere 
to halogen-free standards for cable wires, cable 
jackets, and cable connectors. 
ZTE’s Proactive Approach to Green 
Recycling
ZTE provides disassembly guidelines for 
recycling workers, encouraging the recycling of old 
products for maximum resource utilization.
Plastic material:  All components weighing over 
50 grams with recycling labels and all the pure 
thermoplastic components can be recycled. 
Metal material : Iron, steel, aluminum, and 
copper are all recyclable.
Electrical and electronic devices:  Metals such 
as copper are recyclable.
ZTE’s Commitment to Green 
Development
In the future, green practice will be a strategic 
approach for enterprises to attain sustainable 
development, and low-carbon and energy 
eﬃciency will become essential choices for their 
transformation and growth. ZTE will continue 
to adhere to the principles of sustainable 
development, continuously enhance the green 
attributes of its products, and optimize the 
environmental friendliness of its production 
processes. It strives to make contributions to 
global low-carbon initiatives and environmental 
protection eﬀorts. decrease impact strength and elongation at break, 
thereby increasing the risk of reduced performance. 
Additionally, in terms of appearance, it is not 
recommended to use high-gloss products with a 
high proportion of PCR material.
100% Recyclable and FSC MIX Paper
ZTE evaluates the materials it utilizes based 
on two criteria: their environmental impact and 
their technical practicality. Materials that not 
only have the least impact on the environment, 
but also meet customer quality requirements in 
terms of technical performance are given priority. 
This dual assurance of quality and environmental 
friendliness is essential. The bene/f_its of recycled 
paper include low energy consumption, low waste 
disposal costs and low unit raw material costs, 
saving more than 50% of paper-making energy 
and reducing water pollution by 35%. As cost 
considerations and environmental awareness 
continue to gain prominence, recycled paper has 
become an indispensable raw material for the 
paper-making industry. 
ZTE demonstrates its commitment to protecting 
forest ecosystems by utilizing green packaging 
materials that are FSC-certi/f_ied. The FSC MIX 
certi/f_ication indicates that at least 70% of the wood 
used in the product is sourced from FSC-certi/f_ied or 
recycled materials, with the remaining 30% derived 
from controlled wood. Although choosing such 
paper materials increases the cost, it signi/f_icantly 
enhances environmental friendliness. 
Plant-Based Ink and Plastic-Free Packaging 
Design
ZTE keeps improving its printing techniques 
and packaging materials to achieve sustainable 
innovations. Its product packaging incorporates 
various environmentally friendly approaches, 
making continuous breakthroughs on the 
path of sustainable innovation. It uses 100% 
biodegradable and eco-friendly plant-based 
ink in packaging, replacing petroleum-based 
inks that aﬀect degradation rates. Compared to 
traditional petroleum-based inks, plant-based 
inks are not only safe and eco-friendly but 
25AUG 2023