pres sures and contributed to the future market 
expansion of AMX. 
Constantly Creating Value for Customers 
In November 2018, after nearly two years of 
joint eﬀorts, AMX selected ZTE to provide STB 
services for its /f_ive subsidiaries within six months. 
AMX’s decision has /f_irmly established its presence 
in the traditional TV market, while also driving the 
expansion of its new video services. This strategic 
move has resulted in increased ARPU and an 
enhanced user experience, making it highly 
signi/f_icant. 
In 2020, AMX eﬀectively implemented ZTE’s 
end-to-end video solution, bolstering its presence 
in the high-end market. AMX also adopted ZTE’s 
AOSP-based STB (B866V2) to better meet its 
market demands. This STB not only supports 
HEVC/1.2654K video decoding, live TV, VOD and 
advertising, but also integrates rich content from 
Google applications and the Google ecosystem. 
It oﬀers users an immersive 4K video experience, 
attracting the attention of a large number of 
high-end users. 
In 2022, as the Android TV (ATV) market 
gradually matured and became a development 
trend for STBs, AMX sought to maintain its 
competitiveness in the market by venturing into 
the ATV business. However, AMX also aimed to 
save manpower and capital costs while retaining 
the existing AOSP STBs, with a desire to enhance 
the user experience. To address these needs, 
ZTE introduced Google’s brand-new variant 
build approval (VBA) solution. As the world’s 
/f_irst operator to deploy ATV with a uni/f_ied 
hardware platform for multiple subsidiaries, 
AMX succeeded in upgrading existing STBs 
from AOSP to ATV. This upgrade greatly reduced 
hardware replacement costs, shortened 
the certi/f_ication period, and accelerated 
time-to-market. In addition, mainstream 
content providers such as Net/f_lix, YouTube and 
Amazon Prime Video were also incorporated 
to greatly enrich the ecosystem and enhance 
customer stickiness. During the early stage 
of the AOSP project, ZTE worked closely with Amco, a platform vendor, the Globalhitss 
technical team, and UEI, a remote control 
vendor, laying a solid foundation for the rapid 
development of the ATV project.
Through its reliable products and services, ZTE 
has established eﬃcient technical partnerships 
with third-party vendors and maintained in-depth 
and eﬀective communication with AMX. With the 
help of ZTE, AMX has become the world’s /f_irst 
operator to successfully deploy the VBA solution. 
The achievements AMX has made include:
Migrating existing STBs from AOSP to 
Android TV
Saving hardware replacement costs
Addressing diﬃcult issues of management, 
certi/f_ication and deployment in ten countries
Deploying commercial ATV rapidly in its ten 
subsidiaries for soaring subscriber growth
Enriching mainstream OTT video content to 
enhance user experience and increase ARPU.
The Argentine branch of AMX has become a 
new end oﬃce with millions of STB subscribers, 
setting a good benchmark for other branches. 
Moving forward, AMX will continue to work 
with ZTE to expand its footprint in the high-end 
market and contribute to the development of Pay 
TV services in the Mexican and Brazilian branches. 
Additionally, AMX will consistently prioritize 
customer value and introduce ZTE’s cutting-edge 
4K STB solutions to expand its video business, 
create new revenue streams, and strengthen its 
market position. 
39AUG 2023