Technical Manager of 
Big Video International 
MarketingLei Li
ZTE Brings New Home Video Services 
to Türk Telekom Subscribers
as /f_ixed network and core network. In 2017, 
ZTE recognized that Türk Telekom’s TV 
services were lagging in service experience 
and had high costs of operation, 
maintenance and customization, impacting 
the competitiveness of the service in the local 
market. After several meetings and visits, ZTE 
identi/f_ied several key issues with Türk 
Telekom's TV services, including unstable 
time-shifted TV functions, slow live channel 
switching, and a slow response of the 
electronic program guide (EPG). These 
problems seriously aﬀected the end-user 
experience and hindered Türk Telekom’s 
ability to launch innovative video solutions 
and increase ARPU. 
To tackle these problems, ZTE quickly 
oﬀered Türk Telekom an end-to-end 
solution based on its Big Video products. 
However, in 2018, due to the /f_inancial 
market /f_luctuations in Turkey, Türk Telekom 
did not make a decision on the project at 
that time. 
In 2019, Türk Telekom re-launched the TV 
project and issued an invitation to tender. 
ZTE promptly held a video product urkey, oﬃcially known as the 
Republic of Türkiye, is a 
transcontinental Eurasian country 
with a unique geographic position 
and a rich culture. The country has a total 
population of 80 million, with a signi/f_icant 
proportion of young people. Türk Telekom, 
the largest integrated telecom operator, 
dominates the /f_ixed-line market in Turkey, 
possessing 90% of the country’s /f_iber 
resources and growing fast in digital services. 
In 2020, ZTE began to build a customized 
end-to-end TV platform for Türk Telekom, 
and eﬃciently completed the migration of 
one million subscribers to the live network 
within only a year. This migration resulted in 
a 9.5% increase of the average revenue per 
user (ARPU) of Türk Telekom’s TV bundles. 
Türk Telekom speaks highly of ZTE’s video 
products. 
Türk Telekom and ZTE Collaborate to 
Enhance TV Experience 
ZTE and Türk Telekom have been 
collaborating since 2011 in sectors such T
35AUG 2023