cloud, and AI to provide enhanced user 
experience. Examples include AI-enabled 
image quality enhancement, AI-enabled 
2D-to-3D video conversion, and AI virtual 
viewpoints. 
 
8K UHD Video
8K video refers to ultra-high-de/f_inition 
video with an image resolution of 
7680×4320 pixels, characterized by high 
resolution, high frame rate, high color 
depth, wide color gamut, and high-dynamic 
range.
High resolution:  The dense arrangement 
of 7680×4320 pixels enhances the level of 
detail and sharpness in the visuals. 
High frame rate: The true 8K video 
usually requires a frame rate of 120 fps 
at least. This ultra high frame rate 
improves the smoothness and /f_luidity of 
the images, especially for fast-moving 
images.
High color depth and wide color gamut: 
These features enable smoother color 
gradients, and richer and more lifelike 
colors.
High dynamic range:  This feature 
enhances the contrast of the image, 
adding depth and a sense of 3D to the 
visuals, resulting in a more immersive 
and layered viewing experience.
8K UHD video has been widely used in 
live sports broadcasting, arts shows, and 
cultural and tourism live streaming. Users ideo is undergoing a 
transformation driven by 
technology in the 21st century. 
With the rapid progress of 5G, 
Wi-Fi 6, and FTTH networks, capable of 
delivering gigabit speeds, along with 
advancements in video production, 
distribution, and the integration of AI, 
edge cloud and CDN, video is evolving 
towards ultra-high de/f_inition (UHD), 
multi-dimensional, immersive, and highly 
interactive experiences.
New UHD scenario is a collective term 
for various types of UHD scenarios. It 
encompasses a wide range of immersive 
service forms such as 4K (and above) UHD 
video, VR video, multi-viewpoint video 
(MVV), free-viewpoint video (FVV), /f_lexible 
scaling, and 2D-to-3D video conversion. 
The new UHD scenarios can be categorized 
into three types based on their features.
The /f_irst type is the video featuring 
image quality enhancement, such as 4K 
and 8K UHD videos. Leveraging existing 
video services as a foundation, these videos 
undergo advancements in resolution, 
dynamic range, color gamut, frame rate and 
sampling. 
The second type is the UHD video 
featuring dimensional enhancement and 
interaction, such as VR video, MVV based 
on frame synchronization, and 360-degree 
FVV. These videos enable multidimensional 
experiences and oﬀer strong interactivity. 
The third type is the AI-enhanced UHD 
video, which uses technologies like 5G, Beyond Visuals: A New Experience 
of UHD Video
Chief Engineer of Big Video 
Product Planning, ZTEXu Huoshun
Director of Multimedia 
Innovative Product 
Planning, ZTEMao LianguiV
28New Video Ecosystem Special Topic