elderly and kids. This can be achieved 
through simplifying the UI and introducing 
voice control. Furthermore, introducing 
popular contents like sporting events, 
esports and live webcasts can attract young 
audiences. 
Introduce Short-Form Videos
 
The success of TikTok shows short-form 
videos can eﬀectively engage users and 
enhance customer stickiness. Recent 
statistics show that people are spending 
more time watching short-form videos 
on mobile phones. Notably, the elderly 
shows an increasing interest in short-form 
videos, which poses a threat to the IPTV 
service that focuses on long-form content. 
Therefore, it is urgent to introduce 
short-form videos to IPTV services. 
The introduction of short-form videos 
can drive traﬃc to long-form video services, 
maximizing monetization opportunities. 
By using algorithms, short-form videos 
can be recommended to users based on 
their preferences, increasing exposures and 
subscriptions to the relevant long-form 
videos.
Looking ahead, model tuning can be 
leveraged to target diﬀerent audiences 
within households with relevant content, 
such as education content for kids or 
healthcare content for the elderly. This 
can help form accurate recommendation 
algorithms for TV services. Considering the 
higher compliance standards for TV content 
and the important position of TV sets in 
households, there is an opportunity to build 
an ecosystem that is diﬀerent from that of 
mobile devices, creating a new business 
model speci/f_ically tailored for the TV screen.
Innovate Video Experience 
It is also important to accelerate the 
launch of new video services for TV 
screen, such as 360-degree VR, free-viewpoint video, multi-view mode, and 
multi-viewpoint video. These services are 
suitable for scenarios like cultural tourism, 
sporting events, live concerts, and live 
esports. By combining these new video 
services with compelling content, we can 
attract young people to spend more time 
watching TV. This business model has 
already been developed and needs to be 
promoted for large-scale deployment.
In addition, exploring the application 
of metaverse technology on TV screen 
can provide users with a brand-new TV 
viewing experience. For example, MIGU 
of China Mobile held a “Metaverse World 
Cup Music Festival”, creating a virtual 
interactive space. Viewers could access this 
metaverse world though their TV sets and 
use avatars to enjoy a 360-degree view of 
the singers’ performances while watching 
the interaction between real persons and 
avatars. This approach was very popular 
among young people.
Upgrade TV Services
As technology, especially AI technology, 
develops rapidly, traditional TV services 
like IPTV need to keep pace with changing 
consumer needs. We need to think about 
how to introduce the industry’s latest 
technology to make TV devices and services 
smarter, enable continuous service 
upgrade, and add new impetus to the 
industry growth.
Smart Voice Control
Voice control technology has matured 
and is widely used in IPTV services. For 
example, by con/f_iguring far-/f_ield voice 
modules or Bluetooth voice remote control, 
users can search for and play programs via 
natural language dialogues, enjoying a true 
hands-free experience. This signi/f_icantly 
increases the activation rate of video 
programs, showing the positive eﬀect of 
12New Video Ecosystem Special Topic