for example: 89% browse the Internet, 
83% use e-mail, 79% use it for social 
networks/messaging, 68% for bank 
transactions, and 52% enjoy /f_ilms, series or 
watch sports. To a lesser extent, but with 
signi/f_icant percentages of use, are shopping 
online (50%), administrative procedures 
(40%) and listening to podcasts or radio 
(34%).
Also we have designed our network to be 
able to provide any connectivity based on 
high technical specs and capacities, like 5G 
services which mainly demand a very low 
latency metric and can only be supported 
by networks like Asteo's./uni00A0
What do you think of ZTE as a partner 
and what’s your expectations for it?
Asteo’s vision is to work everyday to 
connect the rural to the world, and our 
contribution to the society is to secure that 
digitalization will not be limited due to digital 
infrastructure shortage.
The role of this network is crucial for the 
future development of these rural regions 
so we request our suppliers to be very solid, 
consistent, eﬃcient and future-proof validated.
Our network must be solid, resilient 
and capable of guaranteeing the needs 
of this society today and in the future, 
and for this, the way in which it is built 
and the elements that are used are key. 
ZTE is a company committed to support this mission of connecting the rural with its 
latest generation equipment, with XGSPON 
technology, and always willing to participate 
in any improvement initiative that we 
implement at Asteo.
/uni00A0
What do you think the industry will 
look like in Spain in the coming 
years, and how will Asteo make a big 
diﬀerence in its growth?
Spain is on the right path in terms of 
increasing the /f_iber optic network. An 
important task ahead is to connect the rural 
areas to /f_iber and allow them to have the 
same services as in urban areas. But the focus 
cannot only be to develop the /f_iber networks. 
It is important to contribute to the adoption 
of the technology by the residents of small 
towns, the digitalisation of the companies 
and services available in these areas.
Also, the 5G roll out is the next European 
challenge. Based on the lessons learned from 
the deployment of FTTH, we cannot allow that, 
once again, a part of society is excluded from 
accessing the advances that this technology 
and its added services will bring./uni00A0
Therefore, Asteo's backhaul network will 
make a key contribution to ensure that the 
mobile antennas distributed in the rural 
areas we cover have adequate connectivity 
capable of supporting the bandwidth needs, 
but especially low latency needs, which are 
essential for guaranteeing 5G.
Cuellar (Segovia) in Castilla y León region, where Asteo Red Neutra has deployed fiber in more than 60 small municipalities.
05AUG 2023