At Asteo we fully believe that innovation 
is not just about technology, it is also about 
the process and way of working. We have 
implemented a very agile and /f_lexible 
working model, where we involve any Public 
Administration that could aﬀect our roll-out 
activities, with the aim to openly collaborate 
in a common goal of bringing an ultra fast 
broadband technology to our ultra rural 
municipalities areas of in/f_luence.
As a new entrant, what distinguishes 
you from other wholesale FTTH 
operators on the market?   
We are the /f_irst wholesale FTTH rural 
operator totally focused on bringing 
connectivity to ultra-rural areas with a 
population of less than 1,000 people. In 
addition to providing service to citizens 
and businesses in the rural areas, we have 
another relevant feature: our 2,000 km of 
/f_iber optic backhaul that connects each 
of the municipalities among them. This 
backhaul has enough capacity to provide 
services to the mobile phone antennas 
that are deployed in these territories and 
that in the future will begin to oﬀer 5G 
connectivity.
As mentioned before, our vision 
regarding innovation also includes our 
business model as a neutral operator that 
allows any telco or digital company to oﬀer 
its services in these rural locations based 
on Asteo's state-of-the-art network based 
on XGSPON technology.
In a market as dynamic as the 
Spanish one, what is the objective 
of Asteo?
We are currently deploying our 
network in Castilla y León, speci/f_ically 
in Burgos, Salamanca and Segovia, and 
in Extremadura, speci/f_ically in Cáceres 
and Badajoz. The /f_irst phase of our 
development plan includes bringing connectivity to nearly 500 rural 
municipalities and 170,000 houses. We 
have already completed 50% of our plan 
and we will keep working on connecting 
these rural areas. In parallel we are working 
to incentivise the creation of new local 
operators in rural areas and expanding our 
network of authorized operators that can 
use our /f_iber optic network. 
/uni00A0
Focusing on rural environments, what 
diﬃculties have you met during your 
deployments and how do you solve 
them?
Rural deployment is clearly conditioned 
by the big number of diﬀerent permits to 
execute the roll out. We are working very 
closely with the Administrations to speed 
up this process.
Also, the execution on the ground 
became a challenge, in particular in some 
areas given the orography and physical 
limitations. In this case, Asteo has performed 
a very well adapted methodology to this 
civil work environment that secures we can 
reach any of 500 planned municipalities as 
part of our network topology.
/uni00A0
In a world hungry for ever-richer 
digital experiences, how do you 
support the rising expectations of 
operators and their customers?
When we started project planning at 
Asteo, we were considering the pros and 
cons of the diﬀerent available technologies. 
At the end our conclusion was to focus on 
bringing the latest available technology to 
the rural and secure a future-proof network 
that can accommodate the increasing 
demand pro/f_ile from the consumers 
without any technical risk. According to 
the study conducted by the “Observatorio 
Asteo”/uni00A0  when a town is connected to /f_iber, 
their residents use it with high frequency 
everyday and this will keep growing, 
04VIP Voice