he backbone is the part of the human 
body that provides strength and stability, 
holding the skeleton together. We often 
refer to people with reliable, resilient 
characters as “having backbone”. It’s the same in 
telecom networks, with the backbone providing 
shape, sturdiness and dependability to the overall 
system.
Without its backbone, connectivity would not be 
possible. And as Internet usage grows in volume and 
complexity, backbone networks must become more 
robust and capable of carrying the applications of 
tomorrow. However, there are signi/f_icant challenges in 
scaling up backbone capabilities, primarily capacity, 
distance and energy usage.
The next phase of capacity expansion needed is 
400G from metro to backbone networks. The term 
400G refers to an optical transport network with 
capacity of 400 Gbps, a considerable jump in 
data-transfer speeds. This is driven by the demands of 
the digital and cloud era, in particular:
Massive traﬃc volumes generated by 5G, 5G 
Advanced, /f_ibre-based broadband and emerging 
service environments such as machine-type 
communications and ultralow-latency services. 
5G needs edge computing architecture, which 
brings cloud resources—computing, storage and 
networking—closer to applications, devices and users. 
However, edge computing demands higher bandwidth.High-quality cloud interconnection and 
connectivity with the demands of service-level 
agreements, driven by standalone 5G 
and enterprise demand for services such 
as data centre interconnection. Research 
suggests that cloud-based data centres 
will take over 92% of data centre activity.
Fibre resources are relatively scarce in 
metropolitan area networks (MANs) and data 
centre interconnection environments, where short 
transmission distance and higher bandwidth are 
necessary. Typically, single-wavelength 400G 
is used. This combines the largest transmission 
bandwidth and the highest spectral eﬃciency with 
the simplest con/f_iguration, which eﬀectively reduces 
transmission costs. Because of its smaller size and 
simple structure, single-carrier 400G can provide 
easy network management and low power usage.
However, in the backbone and some more 
complex MANs, requirements for transmission 
performance are more stringent because the 
transmission distance is longer with more network 
nodes. Here, 400G optical technology can extend 
the distance to several thousands of kilometres, 
helping operators deploy 400G backbone networks 
using as little bandwidth as possible.
400G optical capability has been evolving for the 
past six years for speci/f_ic application environments, 
shown in the timeline below (Fig. 1).
Fig. 1. The evolution of 
400G optical capability
 for the past six years. TSource: CCS InsightConcerned About Internet Growth? 
Get 400G Backbone
2017
The /f_irst test of 400G for metropolitan 
use, typically short-distance and easier 
to achieve.
2019
Metropolitan long-haul 400G is 
/f_ield-tested by China Mobile, and 
the /f_irst commercial 400G MAN is 
deployed by China Telecom.2023
400G becomes commercially 
available for use in all scenarios, 
from the MAN to the ultralong-haul 
backbone.2021
Creation of a prototype for 400G backbone and ultralong-haul 
400G based on quadrature phase-shift keying (QPSK)—a digital 
modulation technique that enables the transmission of two bits 
per each zero or one, making it vital for bandwidth eﬃciency.2020
A more energy-eﬃcient version of 400G 
MAN emerges, based on pluggable optical 
modules with 60% less power usage.2022
“Real” 400G, extending to all applications, 
is tested in lab and /f_ield networks.
40Press Clipping