eﬃciency by 2.7 times and accelerated access 
to green energy.
To better adapt to more diversi/f_ied and 
fast-evolving scenarios, we have recently 
released ZTE Digital Nebula 2.0. With a 
uni/f_ied architecture and scalable design, this 
solution can improve adaptability to multiple 
industries, unlocking greater potential and 
further enhancing production and transaction 
eﬃciency. Finally, it will help various industries 
achieve data-driven eﬃciency improvement, 
build /f_lexibility through cross-domain 
collaboration, and boost trust based on 
openness and transparency.
Phygital DNA will ultimately contribute to 
a more prosperous human society. With a 
scienti/f_ic mindset and human-centric spirit, 
ZTE leverages digital infrastructure and AI to 
catalyze and boost sustainable growth for 
good. Speci/f_ically,
By promoting digital inclusion, we help 
close the digital divide across the globe and 
ensure a fair distribution of social resources.
With digital capabilities, we strive to build 
knowledge graphs for the entire human 
society, so as to make our cultures stay alive.
With innovative technologies, we are 
committed to achieving more balanced, 
green, and low-carbon development 
together with global partners.
/uni00A0
We /f_irmly believe that human civilization 
and technology will complement each other 
and lead us to a better tomorrow.
In such an unprecedented era, we are all 
witnessing and enabling historic changes. As 
a digital native company, ZTE is dedicated 
to full-stack, all-domain, and full-cycle 
DICT innovations. As a driver of digital 
economy, we will always adhere to the 
business philosophy of “Simplicity, Agility, 
and Openness for Win-Win”. Together with 
operators as well as industry and ecosystem 
partners, we aim to build a digital and 
intelligent ecosystem for shared success, 
and will always play our part in promoting 
sustainable development.In the smart factory of Benxi Tool, we 
have provided/uni00A0 AI-powered machine vision,/uni00A0
improving quality inspection precision to two 
microns, and reducing costs by 15%.
AGV-based warehousing and logistics/uni00A0
have made/uni00A0 /f_lexibility and lean management/uni00A0
a reality./uni00A0 For example, we have helped Gree 
improve the warehouse automation rate to 
60%, and shortened the changeover time to 
less than two days. In the smart factory of JA 
Solar, AGVs are deployed for the automated 
distribution of silicon around the clock.
With/uni00A0 situational awareness/uni00A0 based 
on digital twins, we have improved the 
management of onsite personnel and security 
for Wonfull Petrochemical.
To improve transaction eﬃciency and 
convert it into market value, we empower 
full-process operation with digital technology, 
that is, to remove information silos, and 
enable end-to-end data interconnection and 
intelligent analysis and matching.
Working with China Telecom Sichuan, 
ZTE has launched the 5G+ intelligent supply 
chain demonstration project. By integrating 
the technologies such as automatic sorting, 
AGVs, and RFID labels, we customized a digital 
distribution system, which features one-stop 
purchase, direct-to-store service, industry 
collaboration, and a streamlined structure. With 
this system, the delivery eﬃciency is increased 
by 50%, and inventory is reduced by 1/3.
At Tianjin Port, we have enabled remote 
quay control, automated driving of container 
trucks, 5G intelligent tallying as well as 
intelligent on-demand stacking, quality 
grading, and real-time sorting of goods. 
Through such eﬀorts, the overall operation 
eﬃciency is increased by 20%.
Working with China Southern Power Grid, 
we have connected grid control and detection 
nodes on a large-scale 5G network and 
realized high-frequency collection of power 
consumption data over broadband networks 
in real time. This solution has not only enabled 
smart power consumption and electrical 
safety, but also increased power distribution 
09AUG 2023