during the /f_inal presentation, allowing users 
to seamlessly switch between diﬀerent 
viewpoints while maintaining a high level of 
temporal consistency across all frames.
360-Degree FVV
FVV refers to a business model centered 
around events and activities, where multiple 
or surround cameras are used to capture 
video information from multiple viewpoints. 
Through stages such as production, 
transmission, distribution, and playback, 
users have the ability to freely rotate their 
view of the captured objects or scenes from 
any viewpoint by manipulating the user 
interface.
FVV fully leverages the advantages of 
multiple viewpoints, detailed capture, 
and freedom of viewing. It allows users to 
enjoy videos from diﬀerent viewpoints and 
interactively rotate the view, enhancing their 
sense of participation and interactivity while 
getting rid of the dependency on traditional 
director viewpoints.
FVV can also be applied in the production 
of special eﬀect scenes, creating eﬀects 
like bullet time and freeze-frame surround. 
With enhanced technologies like virtual 
viewpoints and AI recognition, FVV delivers 
an exceptional user experience, oﬀering 
superior immersion and engagement. 
8K VR FOV
Due to restrictions in terminal decoding 
capabilities and network bandwidth, current 
VR videos are mostly in 4K resolution. As a 
result, the actual image quality experienced 
by users is relatively low, signi/f_icantly 
aﬀecting their viewing experience. The 
adoption of 8K VR poses higher requirements 
for both transmission bandwidth and 
terminal decoding capabilities, which are 
not yet widely available in terminal devices. 
Therefore, there exists a contradiction 
between the clarity and resource can enjoy an immersive experience of these 
live events on a big screen, with more 
realistic images, amazing special eﬀects, 
richer scenarios, and /f_iner performances. 
8K UHD /f_ilms and TV shows revolutionize 
the visual experience, making viewers 
feel as if they were physically present 
at the scene. In addition, leveraging the 
ultra-high resolution and realistic images, 
8K UHD video can empower the industries 
like industrial manufacturing and remote 
healthcare.  
Interactive Video
Frame-Synchronized MVV
MVV refers to the simultaneous 
broadcasting of multiple independent video 
streams from diﬀerent viewpoints to users 
during events such as sports broadcasts. 
This allows users to choose their preferred 
viewing point or even watch multiple 
viewpoints at the same time. By breaking 
the traditional rules of TV broadcasting, 
this function gives users the freedom to 
personalize their viewing experience. 
As multi-viewpoint videos are transmitted 
independently, various synchronization 
issues may arise during camera capture, 
encoding, transmission, relay, buﬀering, 
decoding, and rendering. To address these 
issues, multi-channel frame synchronization 
technology is adopted to guarantee 
the consistency of the multi-viewpoint 
video feeds, allowing users to experience 
a seamless and synchronized viewing 
experience. 
The core technology, multi-channel frame 
synchronization, utilizes a synchronization 
signal generator at the camera side to 
achieve signal synchronization. During 
video encoding, synchronization tags are 
embedded, and when playing back at 
the client side, the frame synchronization 
information from multiple video streams 
is decoded. This enables frame alignment 
29AUG 2023