played a pivotal role in the development of FTTR 
standards, product de/f_inition, commercial 
models, and interconnectivity. It has developed 
comprehensive whole-home networking 
solutions and product systems for both residential 
and enterprise scenarios. These solutions have 
been widely deployed in 15 provinces in China, 
including Guangdong, Shandong and Henan. ZTE 
continues to empower operators in upgrading 
Wi-Fi quality, overcoming the /f_inal bottleneck of 
gigabit connectivity, and delivering a seamless 
user experience.
Furthermore, operators leverage their 
powerful network pipeline advantage, enabling 
them to boast a user base reaching hundreds of 
millions. With the vast user scale in mind, 
operators built on the foundation of new gigabit 
broadband need to explore inventive gigabit 
value-added services to increase ARPU and 
enhance user stickiness. By complementing the 
“smart networking connectivity” capability with 
UHD video services, operators can tap into diverse 
needs of users in the video sector. This will in turn 
drive network optimization and improve 
connectivity to better support video services, 
thereby achieving a collaborative development of 
gigabit networks and services.
Fig. 1. ZTE end-to-end 
UHD video solution. 
the availability of VR content sources.
The advancements in 8K and AI technology 
drive the development of more immersive and 
interactive UHD video services. Innovations like 
AI-enabled image enhancement, MVV, AI virtual 
trials, FVV, and bullet time viewing are gradually 
gaining industry recognition and undergoing 
trial promotions. ZTE, as a leading provider of 
multimedia video solutions, has launched end-
to-end UHD multi-dimensional video products 
and 4K/8K UHD terminal devices (Fig. 1). These 
products integrate new technologies such as 
UHD, strong interactivity, and AI enhancement, 
and have been commercially deployed in sectors 
including education, healthcare, sports, tourism, 
and home entertainment.
Combination of FTTR and 8K: Unleashing 
the Potential of Operator’s Pipelines 
One of the key strengths of operators is their 
strong network pipeline connectivity, 
particularly their control over the home network 
portal. With this network portal, operators can 
oﬀer true gigabit experience and leverage smart 
networking technologies to create a competitive 
edge. As a leader in FTTR solutions, ZTE has 
8K@60fps decoding
for UHD display
Cloud production
and broadcastingService
platform
AVS3.0, 8K@60fps decoding, 4K@60fps encodingDual-gigabit for fast connection
HDMI2.1 for high-speed transmission
4G/16G storage 3.2 TOPS AI computing
CDN
B980V210G PON 5G/Wi-Fi6 8K STBContent collection
5GVideo processing Content transmission Display'AI super-resolution to
enhance image qualityFree-viewpoint video to
deliver immersive experience Metaverse to combine
digital and real worlds
27AUG 2023