incidents at the host and business levels. 
Through the professional service security 
operation center (SSOC), secure CDN also 
achieves manageable, controllable and 
centralized management, allowing for rapid 
respond to various security incidents.
ZTE Secure CDN Solution
ZTE secure CDN solution consists of two 
major components: the management center 
and the client program. The management 
center adopts a B/S architecture, allowing 
administrators to manage the host devices 
eﬀectively. This includes managing device login 
accounts, process management, log auditing, 
security policy con/f_iguration, host security, and 
anti-tampering module settings, creating an 
integrated security system. The client program 
is an independent program running on the local 
host. It executes tasks and policies issued by the 
management center, and collects and reports 
behavior data necessary for security auditing 
and detection. The functional modules of ZTE 
secure CDN solution are shown in Fig. 1.
Host security:  By utilizing log analysis 
and event tracing technologies, combined 
with functions such as asset management, 
vulnerability scanning, risk detection, and 
baseline check, ZTE secure CDN solution 
promptly identi/f_ies potential security risks 
in servers. These risks include security 
vulnerabilities, weak passwords, /f_ile upload 
risks, and /f_ileless attacks. The solution oﬀers 
comprehensive protection and early warning 
against malicious scanning, brute-force s many countries place great 
importance on security, speci/f_ic 
laws and regulations have been 
developed to standardize and 
supervise product safety. In China, laws and 
regulations such as the “Cybersecurity Law”, 
“Basic Requirements for Information System 
Security Protection”, “Data Security Law”, and 
“Personal Information Protection Law” have been 
implemented. In the European Union, regulations 
such as the “General Data Protection Regulation” 
and “European Cyber Resilience Act” have been 
introduced, covering various areas including 
host security, data security, personal information, 
and network security. Moreover, national-level 
cybersecurity initiatives like network protection 
campaigns and National Cybersecurity Awareness 
Weeks continue to expand, demonstrating 
the signi/f_icant attention given to security by 
the respective countries. At the same time, 
cyberattackers are becoming more sophisticated 
in their techniques, diversifying their attack 
methods and aiming at lower-level targets. These 
observations reveal that content delivery network 
(CDN) customers face three key security pressures: 
external attack pressure, compliance governance 
pressure, and security operation and maintenance 
(O&M) pressure.
To address the security demands mentioned 
above, ZTE has developed its secure CDN 
solution that incorporates security as a signi/f_icant 
component of CDN. Secure CDN builds a 
CDN system that is founded on host security 
and targets business security. It achieves a 
comprehensive protection from the inside out by 
detecting, analyzing, blocking and tracing security Secure CDN: Achieving Managable, 
Controllable and Centralized 
Management 
Chief Engineer of CDN 
Product Planning, ZTEZhang YuA
32New Video Ecosystem Special Topic