ince its launch in 2005, IPTV 
service in China has enjoyed 
signi/f_icant growth with a user 
base reaching 380 million in 2023. 
However, while IPTV subscribers continue to 
increase, the user base has reached its peak 
in terms of both growth rate and potential. 
Furthermore, despite the huge user base, 
the revenue of the IPTV value-added 
services has not been maximized for 
operators, and the basic video services are 
facing problems like /f_ierce competition from 
OTT and the increase of an older audience, 
leading to a bottleneck in development. 
To de/f_ine a second growth trajectory, 
IPTV needs to explore something new. There 
are two key aspects to consider: boosting 
retention of the existing audience, especially 
senior audience, and attracting young 
people who are vital in shaping trends.
Currently, IPTV, similar to cable TV, mainly 
attracts older generations. To enhance 
retention among this existing audience, IPTV 
providers are exploring new services that oﬀer 
convenience for viewers, for instance, making 
an outpatient appointment or oﬀering health consultation online. In China, there 
is a growing consensus within the industry 
to develop services tailored to the elderly. 
However, there is a need to further improve 
service capabilities and quality to empower 
the eldercare industry.
To attract young generations, IPTV needs 
to address three challenges.
The /f_irst signi/f_icant challenge is the lack 
of interaction. Young people, growing 
up in an online world, are accustomed to 
sharing their thoughts and experiences 
on the internet. OTT services have gained 
popularity among young viewers due 
to their interactive features, such as 
comments, bullet comments and sharing 
options. However, such functions remain 
rudimentary or even absent on TV platforms 
due to limitations on interaction models 
and security concerns. To attract young 
Chief Engineer of ZTE 
DHome Product Planning You Hongtao
Ways to Break Through 
TV Multimedia Service 
Bottlenecks
S
10New Video Ecosystem Special Topic