ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
September  2023  Vol.21 No.3LI Wei , JI Jingkang , LIU Yuanlong , SUN Jiawei , LIN Subin Simulation and Modeling of Common Mode EMI Noise in Planar Transformers    Research Papers
diameter is 20.6 mm, the distance between turns is 0.4 mm, 
and the relative permittivity of the filler material is 4.4.
The simulation result of the finite element simulation soft ‐
ware is 21.769 pF, and the calculation result of Eq . (1) is 
20.89 pF, with an error of 4.04%. The main source of error is 
the edge effect of the parallel plate capacitor . In Fig . 1(b), 
the electric field strength between conductors is basically 
uniform , and the electric field distribution at the edge of the 
conductor is obviously uneven . However , Fig. 1(c) shows that 
most of the electric field energy is stored between conduc ‐
tors, so it is reasonable to use an approach that approximates 
a parallel plate capacitor .
2.2 Calculation of Equivalent Capacitance for Common 
Mode Noise of Planar Transformers
For a planar transformer , due to the close magnetic coupling 
of each layer of windings , the magnetic flux or induced electro ‐
motive force linked by each turn of the winding is basically the 
same , and the alternating current (AC) resistance of each turn 
of the winding is much smaller than the excitation inductance . 
If the leakage inductance is ignored , it can be approximated 
that the potential of the winding is linearly distributed along the 
number of turns and the length of the winding .
Assuming that the potential on the transformer winding in 
Fig. 1(a) is linearly distributed along the turn length , and the 
distributed capacitance is evenly distributed along the wind ‐
ing, the integral of the primary winding and the secondary 
winding along the turn length l can be expressed as :
∫0l
vp(x)dx=vph+vpl
2⋅l,(2)
∫0l
vs(x)dx=vsh+vsl
2⋅l.(3)
The charge Q stored between the turns of the primary and 
secondary windings in Fig . 1(a) can be expressed as :
Q=∫0lC0
l⋅[vp(x)-vs(x)]dx=C0
lé
ëêêêê∫0l
vp(x)dx-∫0l
vs(x)dxù
ûúúúú.
(4)
Substituting Eqs . (2) and (3) into Eq . (4), we can get :
Q=C0(vph+vpl
2-vsh+vsl
2).
(5)
Considering that when the windings between different 
turns of the planar transformer are connected , the outlet 
ports of the windings on the same side need to be staggered 
by a certain angle . At this time , the voltage difference be ‐
tween the relative position of the primary winding and the 
secondary winding will change with the staggered angle . However , it can be obtained from Eq . (5) that the induced 
charge Q between turns is determined by the structural ca ‐
pacitance C0 between the primary and secondary windings 
and the midpoint potential of the primary and secondary 
windings . As long as the assumption of uniform distribution 
of potential on the windings is established , the charge Q is 
not affected by the voltage difference distribution of the pri ‐
mary and secondary windings . As long as the assumption of 
uniform distribution of potential on the windings holds , the 
charge Q is not affected by the voltage difference distribution 
of the primary and secondary windings . As shown in  Fig. 2, 
the angles between the primary winding outlet port and the 
secondary winding outlet port are 180°, 135° and −135°. The 
potential difference between the primary winding and the 
secondary winding changes . However , ignoring the influence 
of port voids , after the integration operation of Eq . (4), the fi ‐
nal induced charge Q between turns and the turns of three 
different outlet port angles is the same .
The primary and secondary windings of a planar trans ‐
former are multi -turn, so it is only necessary to follow the cal ‐
culation method of Eq . (5). The inductive charge between 
each turn of the primary and secondary windings is added up 
to the charge Qall stored between the primary and secondary 
windings of the entire planar transformer . Qall characterizes 
the transfer capability of transformer common mode noise .
Taking the single -layer single -turn planar transformer in 
Fig. 3 as an example to calculate Qall, we find that the turn ra ‐
tio of the primary and secondary windings is 3:1, the primary 
winding has 3 turns , which are P1, P2, and P3, respectively , 
and the secondary winding has 1 turn , which is S1. The trans ‐
former adopts a 2-layer parallel winding on the primary side , 
an 8-layer parallel winding on the secondary side , and a stag ‐
gered winding on the primary and secondary sides . The spe ‐
cific stacked structure is shown in Fig . 3. At the same time , 
the laminated structure parameters of the planar transformer 
are given in Table 1. Under the symmetrical structure , the fac ‐
ing areas between P1, P2, P3 and S1 are basically the same , 
and S is uniformly taken as the facing area between the turns 
of the primary and secondary windings .
The charge QP1S1 stored between the first turn P1 of the 
primary winding and the secondary winding S1 can be ex ‐
pressed as :
(a) Outlet port : 180° (b) Outlet port : 135° (c) Outlet port : −135°
▲Figure 2. Schematic diagrams of different angles of the outlet ports of 
the primary and secondary windings180° 135° 
−135° 
107