As an emerging telecommunications 
operator in the Philippine market, how 
does DITO Telecommunity position itself in 
the rapidly evolving environment? What 
are the key challenges that you face when 
planning your strategy? 
We are the newest mobile telecom operator in the 
Philippines. With only two incumbent operators in 
the country of over 100 million people who are 
digitally cosmopolitan and savvy, there is a huge 
opportunity for a third player like us to enter the 
market, particularly when you look at the evolution 
of the technology from 3G to 4G and now to 5G. 
DITO is an exclusively 4G/5G operator, equipped 
with a brand-new, state-of-the art network. Following 
the pandemic, a lot of our customers have taken to 
digital applications and solutions to enable their 
lifestyles. Therefore, there is much more consumption 
of mobile data and life-enhancing applications, 
presenting us with ample opportunities to capture 
business from our customer constituency.
With the growing digital transformation in 
the country, what strategies have DITO 
Telecommunity devised to leverage this 
trend for a competitive advantage?   
DITO has strategically positioned itself at the 
forefront of the digital transformation wave by 
implementing several key strategies to gain a 
competitive edge in the market.
Firstly, DITO's deployment of standalone 4G/5G 
technology underscores its commitment to providing cutting-edge mobile and /f_ixed solutions. 
By investing in next-generation infrastructure, DITO 
ensures high-speed, reliable networks, meeting the 
evolving demands of consumers and businesses 
alike. As testament to this, DITO was awarded the 
Speedtest Award for Top Rated Mobile Network in 
the Philippines by Ookla at the recent MWC in 
Barcelona. Prior to this, among the eleven (11) metrics 
measured by Open Signal, DITO ranked #1 in seven 
and #2 in three.
Secondly, DITO's decision to forgo legacy 
network systems and embrace modern, all-digital IT 
platforms across back-end and front-end 
operations is instrumental in maintaining agility 
and scalability. This streamlined approach allows 
for faster innovation cycles, quicker response times, 
and a more eﬃcient use of resources, ultimately 
enhancing DITO's competitiveness in the digital 
landscape.
Furthermore, DITO leverages Big Data and 
analytics to guide its network architecture decisions, 
ensuring optimal performance and personalized 
service delivery. By harnessing data insights, DITO 
can proactively anticipate and address customer 
needs, wherever and whenever they arise. This 
approach is not only operationally cost-eﬃcient but 
also customer-centric. It enhances satisfaction and 
strengthens DITO’s market position by staying ahead 
of emerging trends and evolving customer 
preferences. 
In addition to these strategies, DITO remains 
committed to ongoing innovation initiatives, 
fostering partnerships, and cultivating a culture of 
teamwork. 
 
 
ith the ongoing shift to digital lifestyles in the Philippines, DITO Telecommunity 
(DITO) is strategically positioned to capture opportunities in the country's digital 
transformation. Eric Alberto, CEO of DITO, outlines the country's evolving digital 
landscape, the company’s strategies in driving digital transformation, and its future key 
goals, while emphasizing the importance of developing strong vendor partnerships.
DITO is the fastest-growing telecommunications provider in the Philippines after it was awarded a 
Certiﬁcate of Public Convenience and Necessity by the National Telecommunications Commission in 
2019. It aims to improve the Philippines' connectivity with faster and more secure high value 4G and 
5G technologies. 
W
 03 JUN 2024