provide inspiring information for other agents. If a 
certain number of task agents can be reached, one of 
the two necessary conditions for the emergence of 
group intelligence can be met. Second, with the 
abstract summarization capability of AI models, an 
agent within a team can combine multiple highly 
correlated information fragments from diﬀerent 
agents, ful/f_illing another necessary condition of 
group intelligence. Once these two necessary 
conditions are met, the phenomenon of group 
intelligence may start to emerge.
To sum up, through academic tracing, product 
experimentation, and technical decomposition of 
diﬀerent types of agents, we have derived an insight: 
in the upcoming year, we expect a rapid increase in 
the number of ordinary agents, and the 
phenomenon of group intelligence may emerge 
before that of powerful agents. 
Building on this insight, we need to further 
consider the following aspects:
Develop framework technologies with low 
learning costs and low technological thresholds 
to quickly generate agents; establish 
multi-agent collaboration and intelligent 
control centers to manage the emergence of 
group intelligence.
Track the key capabilities driving agent evolution, 
including environment modeling, memory, 
learning and design, and thoroughly explores the 
potential of memory.
Develop agent products related to enterprise data 
analysis and SOP work/f_lows to bring bene/f_its to 
enterprises. Development trend analysis: Based on the above 
analysis, task agents involve only one less mature 
technology. Job agents involve /f_ive immature 
technologies, including one diﬃcult technology, 
environment modeling. Key technologies involved 
in self-evolving agents are all diﬃcult. Therefore, 
task agents may experience the fastest 
development speed and oﬀer the highest value.
Analysis of current products: Major products 
both domestically and internationally focus on the 
task agent type. 
Insights About Agent Trends
Based on the above analysis, we can draw the 
following conclusions:
At the current stage, the product focuses on 
simple task agents, which utilizes mature 
technologies and can be easily replicated and 
promoted. This aligns with our product 
experiments, and we anticipate a rapid increase in 
the number of such agents.
Under the conditions described above, the 
technologies that widen the gap between agents 
are memory and dialog.
Developing a powerful individual agent is diﬃcult 
because it involves enhanced learning and 
environment modeling technologies. This is 
consistent with the input cost and outcomes 
observed in our experiments with environment 
modeling. 
Leveraging AI models, a simple task agent can 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the upcoming year, we expect a rapid increase in the 
number of ordinary agents, and the phenomenon of 
group intelligence may emerge before that of powerful 
agents.
 
 
 
JUN 2024 
 13