ith the advent of ChatGPT, arti/f_icial 
intelligence (AI) has rapidly become a 
key force for social progress. The 
extensive application of AI technologies has 
brought great changes to our lives and work, 
relying heavily on robust computing infrastructure. 
AI training tasks and inference applications demand 
high-performance, large-scale parallelism, and 
low-latency interconnections, necessitating diverse 
requirements for computing, storage, and network 
interconnections. In addition, the demand for AI 
power aggregation also triggers innovation in the 
infrastructure management platform (Fig. 1).
AI Chips
In addition to the high-performance matrix 
operations required for AI model training and 
inference, larger parameter values in AI models 
necessitate greater memory capacity. Additionally, 
extensive data exchange among multiple AI chips 
demands high bandwidth and low latency in 
interconnection buses. Therefore, AI chips must 
meet three major requirements: computing power, 
memory, and interconnection buses. 
In terms of computing power, AI uses machine 
learning technology based on multi-layer neural networks, requiring extensive matrix operations 
such as multiplication, convolution, and activation 
functions. Traditional CPUs have lengthy data /f_lows, 
allocating more space to control and cache units, 
with computing units occupying only 25% of the 
space. Generally, there are just a few dozen 
arithmetic/uni00A0 logic units (ALUs), with eﬃciency not 
being high in processing these parallelized and 
vectorized operations. Graphics/uni00A0 processing units 
(GPUs), however, allocate 90% of the space to 
computing units, enabling parallel processing of 
dense data with thousands of ALUs. Since 2017, 
mainstream AI chip manufacturers have released AI 
GPUs dedicated to matrix computing acceleration, 
enhancing computing performance for large-model 
training. In addition to hardware, GPU manufacturers 
usually provide the corresponding development 
platforms like NVIDIA CUDA, allowing developers to 
directly program  and optimize GPUs to fully utilize 
their computing capabilities.
In terms of memory, transformer model 
parameters increase by an average factor of 240 
every two years, while AI memory capacity only 
doubles every two years, failing to keep pace with 
model growth. To address this, a feasible solution is 
the use of super nodes with uni/f_ied memory 
addressing. For example, by customizing an AI server 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
w
 
 
 
 
 
 
Development 
Trends of AI 
Computing Power
Zhu Kun
Chief Engineer of ZTE Cloud Computing Planning
 05JUN 2024 