Other AIOps 
capabilities
 
 
 
AI Model + 5G: Empowering 
Industry Intelligence
ince the second half of 2022, the 
popularity of AI models, represented by 
ChatGPT, has swept the world, signaling 
the oﬃcial entrance of AI technology into 
the era of AI models. However, in 2023, the model 
development and applications have followed 
diﬀerent trajectories. While the models are rapidly 
evolving, their applications have not kept pace, 
lagging behind the advancement of AI models. As a 
new technology, AI models strongly promote the 
development of basic intelligent science. However, 
their wide applications need to be integrated with 
the industry and other technologies. This paper 
discusses the new paradigm of applying AI models 
combined with 5G in various industries and 
explores the prospects and evolution of the “AI 
model + 5G” to promote the development of 
industry intelligence.
In China, the government held six consecutive 
sessions of the “Blooming Cup” 5G application 
competitions to promote in-depth integration of the 
digital economy and the real economy. Throughout 
this process, various issues have been exposed, such 
as the high threshold of 5G network technologies, 
maintenance and operation diﬃculties for industry 
users, and the failure to realize the value of network 
data. Additionally, model applications in the industry 
encounter numerous challenges, such as acquiring 
high-quality datasets and achieving rapid industrial 
deployment, which remain signi/f_icant concerns.
The development of industry intelligence requires 
that AI model and 5G complement each other, with 
both being jointly promoted: AI model enables 5G 
and drives the digital and intelligent transformation 
of the industry, while 5G empowers AI model and 
accelerates its applications, as illustrated in Fig. 1. AI Model Enables 5G 
The challenges encountered in the development 
of 5G within the industry include complicated 
network O&M, unguaranteed service level 
agreements (SLAs), and insuﬃciently diﬀerentiated 
processing methods for speci/f_ic services. These issues 
can be addressed by introducing AI models into the 
5G network.
AI Model Facilitates Intelligent 5G Network 
Operation 
After industry customers deploy 5G networks, 
professional knowledge and personnel are required 
for service provisioning and routine O&M, thereby 
increasing network costs and investment. To mitigate 
this, AI models are applied in 5G O&M to achieve 
intelligent network operation, signi/f_icantly reducing 
industry investment. These AI models aid industry 
customers in converting service requirements into 
network planning and con/f_iguration, enabling 
intent-driven services and improving service 
provisioning eﬃciency. By analyzing a vast amount of 
network logs and alarm data, AI models can identify 
or predict faults and provide corresponding 
solutions. Through in-depth analysis of customers’ 
behavior data, AI models can predict network 
requirements and service preferences, generate 
related service bundles, and facilitate better network 
operation. 
AI Model Guarantees Network SLA   
Applications in various industries have unique 
demands concerning network bandwidth and 
latency. For example, video surveillance services in 
the intelligent manufacturing /f_ield necessitate 
Architect of ZTE CCN 
Product PlanningWang Chaoying
Chief Engineer of ZTE 
CCN Product PlanningLiu XiliangS
JUN 2024
31 
