/f_iber to the room (FTTR) all-optical networking 
solution in the industry, which would deliver gigabit 
bandwidth to every room. The solution gained high 
praise from Wyndham Royal Lee Phuket, and the 
three parties agreed to replace its existing VDSL 
solution with True Online’s broadband access service 
and ZTE’s FTTR solution when Wyndham Royal Lee 
Phuket oﬃcially reopens after the refurbishment. 
This proactive approach would address the low 
bandwidth and poor Wi-Fi coverage in the guests 
rooms, providing guests with fast and stable Internet 
service. Consequently, it enhances the guests’ stay 
experience and elevates Wyndham Royal Lee 
Phuket’s high-end image.
FTTR All-Optical Networking Solution
Before the Wyndham Royal Lee Phuket project, 
True Online had already started large-scale 
deployment of dual-band Wi-Fi 6 optical network 
terminals (ONTs) and mesh access points (APs) to 
ensure its competitiveness in bandwidth and 
coverage. To maintain its leading position in the Thai 
operator market, True Online actively conducted 
FTTR network trials with ZTE and was very satis/f_ied 
with the trial results. ZTE’s innovative FTTR solution 
has a wide range of applications in traditional home 
 
 
 
 
Wi-Fi: A Critical Pain Point Wyndham 
Royal Lee Phuket Urgently Needs to 
Address in Operations
With the widespread adoption of smart home 
devices and the rapid development of services 
such as high-de/f_inition video and gaming, the very 
high-speed digital subscriber line (VDSL) 100 Mbps 
bandwidth access solution used by Wyndham 
Royal Lee Phuket was no longer able to meet the 
high-speed Internet needs of its guests. This 
growing demand for network services poses 
greater challenges for hotel network 
infrastructure, necessitating urgent upgrades to 
provide faster and more stable Internet 
connections.
The VDSL solution involved sharing one Wi-Fi 
gateway for every 2–3 rooms, resulting in poor Wi-Fi 
coverage and low bandwidth—the actual bandwidth 
accessed by guests was less than 10 Mbps. Guests 
frequently reported Wi-Fi connectivity failures and 
unstable Wi-Fi connections, which degraded the 
user experience and harmed the premium image of 
the hotel.
After astutely identifying Wi-Fi as a pain point of 
Wyndham Royal Lee Phuket, True worked with ZTE to 
hold discussions with the customer about the latest 
True teams up with ZTE to build Thailand’s ﬁrst FTTR communityTrue teams up with ZTE to build Thailand’s ﬁrst FTTR community
40 Success Stories 