a more /f_lexible model architecture. It provides O&M 
personnel with lower maintenance threshold and 
continuously generalizes O&M capabilities.
Architecture and Key Technologies of ZTE 
CCN AI O&M Model  
ZTE CCN AI O&M model is based on the Nebula 
model, developed by ZTE, in the telecom /f_ield. It uses 
high-quality corpus for /f_ine-tuning the base models 
and generating an AI O&M model oriented to the core 
network and network cloud (Fig. 1). There are three 
types of AI O&M model applications: intelligent 
interaction (CoPilot-I), intelligent analysis (CoPilot-A), 
and intelligent generation (CoPilot-G). 
CoPilot-I:  It provides the functions such as 
professional knowledge Q&A, network health 
querying, and key indicator information querying.
CoPilot-A:  It includes fault analysis assistance, 
network optimization assistance, and inspection 
report.
CoPilot-G:  It generates inspection reports, 
operation solutions, and network reports.
To meet the above-mentioned AI O&M model 
capabilities, all AI O&M model products targeted for 
ZTE core network and network cloud incorporate the 
currently popular key technologies such as 
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Root cause location: Based on fault detection, ZTE 
conducts further analysis of abnormal data to 
infer the cause and location of the fault, thereby 
identifying the speci/f_ic type and location. This 
requires various diagnosis technologies and 
methods, such as fault tree analysis and expert 
systems. Through root cause analysis, the 
system can pinpoint the origins of issues more 
accurately and take eﬀective measures to 
resolve faults, thereby enhancing system 
reliability and stability.
Fault prediction and prevention: The AI model 
can learn from vast amounts of historical O&M 
data to identify patterns and trends in fault 
occurrence, establishing a fault occurrence model. 
Utilizing this model, the AI model monitors and 
analyzes real-time data to predict potential fault 
risks and send early warnings, providing O&M 
personnel with suﬃcient time to take preventive 
measures and reduce the fault rate. This predictive 
maintenance approach not only reduces the 
impact of sudden failures but also maximizes 
system stability and availability, enhancing 
operational eﬃciency and resource utilization.
Compared with traditional AI for IT operations 
(AIOps), the AI model provides enhanced intelligent 
O&M capabilities, such as simpler interaction, 
broader knowledge coverage, fault self-learning, and 
 JUN 2024
 29