multi-agent collaboration.
Retrieval-Augmented Generation  
To accomplish more complex and 
knowledge-intensive tasks, it is necessary to build a 
more accurate and reliable system and alleviate the 
hallucination issue of AI models. RAG stands out as a 
key technology for AI models. It helps large language 
models generate answers by retrieving information 
from data sources. The RAG technology can greatly 
enhance the accuracy and relevance of content, 
eﬀectively addressing hallucination issues, 
accelerating knowledge updates, and improving the 
traceability of content generation. RAG has become 
the most popular system architecture for AI models 
to obtain new external knowledge.
Multi-Agent Collaboration Architecture
Multi-agent collaboration refers to the process in 
which multiple agents communicate and collaborate 
with each other in a shared environment to achieve 
common goals. Each agent possesses a level of 
autonomy and intelligence, enabling perception, 
decision-making, and execution based on 
environment information. Through mutual 
interaction and cooperation, the system can bene/f_it 
from the advantages and strengths of each agent to 
achieve more eﬃcient and intelligent 
decision-making and action. Leveraging the 
multi-agent collaboration architecture, independent 
agents, such as knowledge experts, fault experts, 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. ZTE CCN AI 
O&M model 
architecture. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on-duty experts, and solution experts, can be 
collaboratively created to build an intelligent network 
O&M system architecture.
Challenges and Future Development of AI 
Models in Intelligent O&M
Although AI models have promising application 
prospects and advantages in the intelligent O&M 
/f_ield, challenges still exist, including improving the 
model’s adaptation capability, reducing complexity, 
and addressing data privacy and security issues.
In the future, with the continuous development of 
technologies and application scenarios, AI models 
will be widely and deeply applied in the intelligent 
O&M /f_ield. For instance, with the proliferation and 
advancement of edge computing, AI models will 
gradually migrate to the edge to achieve more 
eﬃcient and real-time intelligent O&M. At the same 
time, AI models will be closely integrated with 
machine learning, deep learning, and other 
technologies to further enhance the eﬃciency and 
precision of intelligent operation and maintenance. 
AI models will encounter both challenges and 
opportunities in handling more extensive data. 
Therefore, we need to continually explore, innovate, 
and apply practices tailored to speci/f_ic scenarios and 
requirements. Additionally, further strengthening 
research and development in related technologies is 
necessary to promote the advancement and progress 
of intelligent O&M technologies.
TCF intelligent computing platformOTAF O&M platform
L0 universal AI model (Baichuan AI, LLAMA2, ChatGLM, ZTE GPT…)L1 telecom AI model (ZTE Telecom AI model)L2 CCN AI  O&M model (Fine tuning)New components Legend Enhanced componentsO&M 
products
Training 
productsCNIA
EMS+Original services Enhanced services of CCN AI O&M model
CPU resource pool GPU resource poolCCN AI O&M modelCCN AI O&M model plug-inCCN AI model inference services
Platform baseOther AIOps 
capabilitiesCoPilot-I
Intelligent helpInterface wakeup
Interactive queryCoPilot-A
Troubleshooting 
assistance
Optimization 
assistance
Inspection doctorCoPilot-G
Inspection/
on-duty report
Self-de/f_inition 
report
Key operation solution
Inference framework Model management
Model repository Inference monitoring Inference platform: AIE platformVector knowledge base AI PaaS
Intelligent query
Intelligent analysis Solution generation ReportIntelligent help O&M framework: Copilot 
LangChain
 
EMS
CloudStudio
CIIA
Intelligent Computing Special Topic
30