o date, AI has experienced three major 
shifts and two downturns. In November 
2022, OpenAI released ChatGPT and its 
generative AI technology, employing 
transformer algorithms and pre-trained AI models. 
This propelled the third wave of AI development to 
unprecedented heights, marking a turning point and 
peak of excitement in AI models.
The generative AI technology can create new 
content, imitate human creativity and innovation, 
and play an important role in numerous /f_ields, 
driving the prosperity and advancement of AI. 
Large-scale miracles are being achieved as bigger 
models bring greater intelligence. As AI technologies 
evolve, various industries will use AI to enhance 
operational eﬃciency, create business value, and 
move from a digital realm to a digital and intelligent 
world. 
Faced with opportunities and challenges in 
generative AI technology, ZTE steadfastly maintains 
its role as a driver of the digital and intelligent 
economy, striving to be the ultimate AI company and 
serve as a leading AI enterprise model. Additionally, 
ZTE is committed to helping industries build 
end-to-end intelligent computing infrastructure and 
digital transformation solutions. Leveraging its 
universal computing solution, ZTE has launched the 
Nebula intelligent computing solution, guided by 
openness, eﬃciency, intelligence, and security 
concepts, and oriented towards training and inference scenarios. The solution spans intelligent 
infrastructure, AI platforms, AI models, and 
applications, empowering operators to build 
intelligent computing centers and drive digital 
intelligent transformation across industries (Fig. 1).
Intelligent Computing Infrastructure: 
Eﬃcient and Secure
ZTE intelligent computing infrastructure layer, 
including IDCs, AI computing, integrated storage, 
lossless network, and resource management 
platform, supports the construction of diverse and 
multi-layered intelligent computing infrastructure. It 
ranges from AI model training & intelligent computing 
centers, hybrid training & intelligent computing 
centers, to edge training integrated computers. Each 
layer caters to speci/f_ic performance, cost, and service 
needs in diﬀerent scenarios. This multi-layer design 
enhances adaptability, /f_lexibility, and user choice.
Eﬃciency Is the Priority 
The cost of single AI model training is high, so an 
eﬃcient intelligent computing infrastructure is 
required. ZTE builds such infrastructure through 
hardware, resource management, and product 
solutions.  
In hardware selection, processors with high 
Chief Scientist of ZTE 
Product PlanningWang Weibin
Chief Architect of ZTE 
CCN ProductLu Guanghui
ZTE AI Full-Stack Intelligent 
Computing Solution: 
Empowering Various Industries
T
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intelligent Computing Special Topic 
 14