100 million parameters to 340 million, 7 billion and 
13 billion parameters. This process encompassed 
four parameter scales and included six diﬀerent 
models from both domestic and international 
sources, including self-developed ones. We 
evaluated a total of more than 20 combinations.  
In terms of corpus and /f_ine-tuning, we obtained a 
/f_irst-hand, high-quality corpus compliant with 
regulations, tried various /f_ine-tuning solutions, and 
/f_inally devised the most eﬀective approach: "special 
prompt words+sample /f_ine-tuning", greatly 
improving recognition accuracy and recall rate. 
To address the challenges of high GPU quantity 
and high costs, we designed a multi-layer 
architecture with cache acceleration at the front 
and utilized a combination of small models and 
large models. Additionally, we implemented 
inference acceleration to achieve optimal 
performance.
After evaluating the eﬀects and cost indicators 
of the models, we selected the most optimal 
solution and passed legal compliance review.
Perfect Combination of Communications 
and AI 
Through continuous innovation, ZTE has 
successfully released the industry's /f_irst anti-fraud 
big model system called “Smart Safeguard” (Fig. 1). 
With its out-of-the-box functionality, the system 
automatically identi/f_ies illegal SMS messages 
without policy con/f_iguration. This greatly reduces 
the complexity and workload of on-site policy 
O&M, while enhancing the accuracy of illegal SMS 
message identi/f_ication and recall rate. It enables 
integrated management of identifying, 
preventing, and controlling junk and fraudulent 
SMS messages.
Currently, the system has implemented the 
industry’s /f_irst LLM-based SMS anti-fraud 
management pilot in pilot oﬃces of operators A 
and B in China and quickly transitioned into 
commercial use.
Operator A’s achievements:  Since the system 
was deployed in the provincial company, there 
has been a signi/f_icant increase in the 
interception rate of fraudulent messages. The 
 
 
 
 
 
 
transformer neural network architecture, ChatGPT, 
a large language model (LLM), has made major 
breakthroughs across multiple deep learning 
/f_ields, including large-scale natural language 
processing, sequence data analysis, and target 
detection. Trained on extensive corpora, LLMs can 
acquire generalized knowledge and a deep 
understanding of languages and dialogues. 
Moreover, targeted training allows LLMs to solve 
problems in speci/f_ic /f_ields and rapidly adapt to 
new tasks and scenarios.
Accurately identifying fraudulent SMS messages 
requires a deep understanding of natural 
languages. Furthermore, it is necessary to classify 
sensitive information and identify the real 
intentions conveyed in the content. Lastly, given 
the evolving nature of fraudulent SMS messages, it 
is necessary to learn from samples and 
dynamically upgrade knowledge and models. 
These are the technologies where 
transformer-based LLMs excel. It is worthwhile to 
develop new SMS anti-fraud technologies and 
products utilizing AI models through prototype 
testing and exploration.
Rapid Technical Breakthrough Helps 
Tackle Diﬃculties
In the early stage of the project, we faced 
several challenges in selecting LLMs: 
Uncertainty in model selection : It is challenging 
to determine the most appropriate model while 
ensuring legal compliance. 
Uncertainty in corpus and training solutions: 
The quality, quantity, format, and prompts of 
the corpus were unknown. We started from 
scratch with training and inference solutions.
High GPU and server costs: Inference performance 
was low in the medium term, and the number and 
costs of GPUs required for handling large service 
traﬃc were too high. 
To achieve rapid technical breakthrough, we 
dared to try diﬀerent approaches, make mistakes 
and adjust solutions promptly. 
In terms of model selection, during the initial 
exploration phase, we tried models with less than 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 JUN 2024