scenarios and enterprise settings such as hotels and 
retail establishments. In light of the building 
structure, the three parties decided to deploy one 
main ONT and 26 room ONTs on each /f_loor, ensuring 
that every room had an independent room ONT. The 
deployment locations of the FTTR devices were 
meticulously selected by ZTE engineers to guarantee 
full Wi-Fi signal strength in every corner of the rooms. 
Leveraging the high-bandwidth capability of the 
FTTR devices, True Online provided 2 Gbps 
high-speed packages to boost the Internet 
experience and service satisfaction of guests 
signi/f_icantly.
With the ZTE FTTR solution, Wyndham Royal Lee 
Phuket achieved its goal of oﬀering high bandwidth 
and premium Wi-Fi. The deployed solution has four 
highlight features: gigabit-plus bandwidth and 
superfast services, full coverage and no dead zones, 
smart roaming and seamless handover, as well as 
large space and multiple connections.
Gigabit-plus bandwidth and superfast 
services: The solution employs a combination of 
optical /f_iber and Wi-Fi 6 technology to remove the 
performance constraints of the traditional 
Ethernet cable and prevent speed degradation, 
ensuring smooth gaming, video streaming, and 
conferencing experiences.
Full coverage and no dead zones: Fiber extends 
from the information box to every room to 
implement whole-home Wi-Fi coverage. The 
high data rates and strong anti-interference 
capabilities of the solution ensure that every 
corner of the home enjoys full signal strength.
Smart roaming and seamless handover: An 
in-house smart roaming algorithm enables 
millisecond-level imperceptible roaming 
handover without disruptions as guests move 
about in the hotel building.
Large space and multiple connections:  Each 
/f_loor has a full-coverage network comprising up 
to 26 Wi-Fi hotspots and connecting a 
maximum of 256 smart devices.
Creating a New All-Optical Hotel 
Experience
True Online’s 2 Gbps bandwidth packages, 
 
coupled with ZTE’s FTTR solution, have 
transformed the Internet experience oﬀered to 
guests at Wyndham Royal Lee Phuket. Wyndham 
Royal Lee Phuket has expressed great satisfaction 
with the deployment and plans to deepen 
collaboration with True and ZTE to further 
enhance hotel network technology and provide its 
guests with a better service experience. 
True Online’s  FTTR service launched in Thailand 
has garnered signi/f_icant industry attention due to 
its versatile applications, marking it as a new 
growth area for the operator. As the leader in 
Thailand’s FBB market, True is committed to 
strengthening its collaboration with ZTE in 
exploring new technologies and solutions, 
expecting to bring the Thai people an even more 
dynamic and enriching digital life experience. This 
innovative service has sparked excitement among 
consumers and industry experts alike, positioning 
True as a pioneer in delivering cutting-edge 
telecom solutions tailored to meet the evolving 
needs of the Thai market.
True teams up with ZTE to build Thailand’s ﬁrst FTTR community
 41 JUN 2024