Fig. 2. ZTE AiCube 
X5000 solution.
 
 
“N” Domain Models  
Based on the base AI model, the domain AI model 
improves professional capabilities through 
incremental pre-training on the domain Know-How. 
In the R&D /f_ield, since 2022, ZTE has utilized AI model 
technologies to enhance R&D eﬃciency, assisting R&D 
personnel in requirement analysis, product design, 
programming, testing, version release, and 
documentation. At present, ZTE’s coding AI models 
rank among the top assessed by HumanEval, boasting 
industry-leading capabilities in diverse coding 
languages and Chinese pro/f_iciency. In the telecom 
realm, ZTE leverages vast amounts of high-quality 
network O&M and service operation data to enrich AI 
telecom models, surpassing others in telecom 
knowledge. These AI models support multi-mode 
data in the communication /f_ield, addressing complex 
issues such as coverage, capacity, performance 
reports, and network presentation. Moreover, ZTE’s 
telecom AI models incorporate a robust intent engine 
integrated with autonomous networks, enhancing 
operators’ network operation eﬃciency through 
eﬃcient work/f_low cascades.
“X” AI Scenario-Based Applications
ZTE has developed various subdivision 
applications based on domain AI models such as 
computer vision-based AI models. These include the 
urban lifeline solution for comprehensive urban 
security risk detection and early warning across 
critical infrastructure like water, power, gas, heat, and 
transportation. Additionally, ZTE oﬀers a one-stop AI development assistant covering the entire R&D 
process, built upon the AI coding model. Utilizing the 
AI network model, ZTE has developed a range of 
O&M tools, such as fault O&M robots, tailored to 
support diﬀerent scenarios. Moreover, ZTE has 
created the SMS anti-fraud service application based 
on the AI language model. 
Rich Applications: Empowering Customers’ 
Digital Intelligent Transformation
To help operators and partners build end-to-end 
intelligent computing infrastructure and digital 
transformation solutions for enterprises, ZTE launches 
the open and decoupled Nebula intelligent computing 
solution. This solution provides AI full-stack products 
and is deployed across various sectors including 
intelligent computing centers, R&D eﬃciency 
improvement, communications, anti-fraud governance, 
and urban governance. In the communications sector,  
ZTE released the industry’s /f_irst AI-model-based SMS 
anti-fraud governance system in 2023. In industry 
domains, ZTE cooperates with numerous partners, 
signing strategic agreements and implementing 
multiple projects spanning machine vision, industrial 
production, and more. As a cornerstone technology 
of digital transformation, AI models play a pivotal 
role in the evolution and commercial prosperity of 
numerous industries in the new era. ZTE is fully 
poised to seize this signi/f_icant opportunity with its 
partners, ensuring that AI can catalyze bene/f_its 
across thousands of industries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One-stop AI development AIO computing baseZTE training & inference AIO machine: One-stop delivery, out-of-the-box
Diverse computing resources
Intel/independent innovation CPU, 
NVIDIA/independent innovation GPU 
multi-hardware adaptation      Diﬀerential customization service
AI model training, service /f_ine-tuning 
AI model application system integration
 Flexible model selection
Optional preset basic//f_ield model
Importing a third-party model
End-to-end work/f_low
Full lifecycle of MLOps tool coverage training
Data, training process/result visualizationUni/f_ied resource management
On-demand allocation and dynamic 
adjustment of training and inference 
resources to achieve resource reuseHigh-performance storage network
IB/RoCE high-Performance RDMAs
High-performance parallel /f_ile storage
AiCube X5000
Training & Inference AIO machine
Integration of intelligent computing 
and application 
 
 
 
 
 
JUN 2024 
 17