launched diﬀerent types of GPU servers built on three 
major CPUs including mainstream X86 architecture 
CPUs, domestically-produced X86 architecture CPUs, 
and ZTE-developed ZFX CPU platforms. 
Supporting Two GPU Form Factors 
The ZTE GPU server supports PCIe AIC GPUs as well 
as SXM/OAM GPUs designed for high-speed 
interconnection between cards, such as Nvidia SXM 
GPU accelerator cards or OAM GPU accelerator cards 
(Biren and Cambrian). 
Oriented to Three Application Scenarios 
ZTE series GPU servers oﬀer multiple 
con/f_igurations to meet the requirements of 
large-scale, medium-scale, and small-scale AI model 
training and inference scenarios.
For small model training and medium/small model 
inference scenarios, a general rack server is used. A 
single server can be con/f_igured with four 
dual/single-width full-height GPUs or six/eight 
single-width half-height GPUs, corresponding to the 
ZTE R53xx/59xx series servers.
In medium/small model training and large model 
 
 
 
 inference scenarios, a dedicated PCIe AIC GPU server 
is employed. A single server can be con/f_igured with 
eight or 10 double-width, full-height and full-length 
GPUs or 16 or 20 single-width, full-height and 
full-length GPUs, corresponding to the ZTE R65xx 
series GPU servers.
For large model training scenarios, a dedicated 
SXM/OAM GPU server is used. A single server can be 
con/f_igured with eight SXM/OAM GPUs. To meet the 
multi-node cluster computing requirements, the GPU, 
parameter plane interconnection NIC and NVMe SSD 
are con/f_igured in a 1:1:1 setup, corresponding to the 
ZTE R69xx series GPU servers.
Conclusion
The GPU server market has become a high-growth 
segment within the server market, with its compound 
growth rate expected to remain high in the next few 
years. ZTE series GPU servers oﬀer users high-quality 
and eﬃcient computing power solutions, contributing 
to the establishment of a solid intelligent computing 
infrastructure that could further drive the growth of 
the digital economy.
Intelligent Computing Special Topic 
20 