to 5G intelligent terminals to establish a comprehensive 
cloud-edge-end collaboration system. 
Conclusion 
To foster the industrial applications of “AI model + 
5G” , ZTE has launched the AiCube all-in-one machine. 
The AiCube consists of computing hardware, a cloud 
platform, and an AI platform. The computing 
hardware is compatible with CPUs/GPUs from various 
manufacturers and models. The cloud platform 
implements uni/f_ied resource management, allocates 
computing resources on demand, and can deploy 
both 5G networks and AI models. The AI platform 
provides operators and enterprise customers with 
tools such as data management, model 
development, model training, model inference, and 
application statistics to enhance usability and 
eﬃciency.
As a full-stack intelligent computing solution 
provider, ZTE will work closely with operators and 
industry customers to continually advance “AI model + 
5G” applications, co-create a new intelligent computing 
ecosystem, embrace a future of intelligent computing, 
and inject new impetus into the development of the 
digital economy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and facilitating access to voice, image, and video data 
from anywhere in the industry, thereby greatly 
enriching the datasets of AI models. In addition, the 
5G network provides user authentication and 
transmission encryption technologies to ensure the 
security and eﬀectiveness of data access, thus greatly 
enhancing the quality of AI model datasets.
5G Network Expands AI Model Application 
Scenarios
5G, as a dynamic innovation catalyst, is rapidly 
gaining ground across industries, expanding the 
application scenarios for AI models. On the one hand, 
through the deployment of 5G private networks, 
heterogeneous and massive connections of monitoring 
devices, such as sensors and cameras at front-line 
production sites, can be supported. These new scenarios 
also pose additional requirements for AI models in the 
industry. Leveraging the multi-mode analysis 
capabilities of AI models, intelligent and accurate fault 
warning and risk management can be achieved, 
signi/f_icantly improving production eﬃciency. On the 
other hand, 5G networks also promote the collaboration 
among AI models. Currently, AI models primarily 
collaborate between the cloud and edge. With the 
applications of 5G networks, AI agents can be extended 
 
 
 
JUN 2024
33 
