tasks and instructions directly executed in the 
production environment. Task decomposition 
can occur after overall planning or through 
iterative decomposition.  
Environment and perception: The analysis and 
execution of a task depend on the context of its 
environment. To understand the environment, a 
kind of modeling mode is required /f_irst to convert 
real-world information into a machine-readable 
language. For example, Metaverse is an environment 
modeling mode for the physical world, while the 
digital twin solution in the communication industry is 
an environment modeling mode for the 
communication network.
Memory and learning: The agent learns from 
other agents and environment feedback through 
imitation or reinforcement learning, and stores 
these learning outcomes into memory, enabling 
them to resolve similar problems in the future. The 
ability to learn and adjust to changing 
environments plays a vital role in the 
self-evolution of agents. 
Agent Value Analysis
 
First, the current agent’s value mainly relies on LLMs, essentially a conditional probability 
generation model. Utilizing diﬀerent prompts, such 
as text generation, task disassembly, logical 
inference, and scenario understanding, LLMs 
generate diﬀerent types of outputs. Based on the 
output capability of LLMs, agents build humanized 
roles to serve within the production /f_ield.  
Second, from a mainstream industry perspective, 
the value of agents is embodied by a composite 
expert team composed of both human and multiple 
virtual members. This setup massively improves the 
scope of work, enabling one person to do the work 
traditionally requiring multiple persons. The 
paradigm has shifted from using tools to 
orchestrating multiple agents, which then use tools 
to complete tasks. Compared with conventional 
tools, LLM-based agents can provide greater 
generality and /f_lexibility in judgment and 
decision-making.
 
Experimental Results of ZTE 
At present, ZTE has developed four types of 
agents based on its understanding of  of LLMs and 
the communications industry. These include 
assurance assistant, intelligent Q&A, fault assistant, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Agent 
deployment and 
deﬁnition. 
LLMHumanAgent-1
Working 
envirmonment       Other Agents
EnvironmentLearning
Perception Skill
Memory AgentThink
Internal 
driverExternal driver Agent-2
Agent-N Expert Views
10 