of video data and control instructions. For 
example, video data identi/f_ies I frames (key 
frames of the picture) and uses smooth 
scheduling to avoid "I frame" collisions; control 
instructions use ML to predict the data packet 
sending for an accurate scheduling, which not 
only ensure the reliability of the control 
instructions, but also reduce the occupation of 
system resources.
/uni00A0
5G-A BBU also supports the deployment of 3rd 
party applications, such as 5G-based V2X 
application. ZTE exhibited a 5G-based V2X case in 
cooperation with Tianyi Transportation this year. 
On an open road of 162 square kilometers, 5G 
connection and AI-based edge computing are 
used to achieve precise collaboration of roads, 
vehicles and clouds. The autonomous driving 
network reduces congestion rate by 20%, 
decreases carbon emissions by 12%, and cuts 
down accident rate by 8%.
/uni00A0
In summary, the integration of 5G and AI 
presents signi/f_icant opportunities and challenges 
for the development and monetization of 5G 
networks. It enables innovative applications and 
business scenarios, fully unleashing the value of 
5G networks, such as deterministic connection 
guarantees, edge rendering, and V2X 
applications. These new applications and services 
can signi/f_icantly increase the revenue of 
operators and service providers, serving B2C, B2B, 
and new economy development.
/uni00A0
2024 is the /f_irst year of 5G-Advanced (5G-A) 
commercialization. Driven by new technologies, 
new services and new scenarios, the boundaries 
of communication networks continue to expand. 
5G-A is not only the key of 5G development in the 
next 10 years, but also the key to shape future 
digital society. “Facing 5G-A, ZTE 5G-A BBU and 
RAN Composer are ready to unlock 5G value with 
high eﬃciency” , Tang added. For B2C scenario, 
connecting the virtual and real world for a digital 
life; For B2B scenario, facilitating 5G in core 
production and low-altitude economy for a 
digital society.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“5G and AI integration,/uni00A0 5G-A/uni00A0 new capability 
growth and new scenario exploration need/uni00A0a lot of 
computing power. Therefore, an/uni00A0 integration/uni00A0 of 
communication and computing infrastructure/uni00A0 is 
required” , Tang said./uni00A0 ZTE 5G-A BBU is just this 
novel infrastructure, which is hardware ready for 
communication and computing integration,/uni00A0
further explores computing power of RAN system, 
implements computing power orchestration 
adapting to full scenario requirements, including 
site computing power enhancement, inter-site 
computing power sharing and computing power 
integrated in computing force network,/uni00A0 /f_lexibly 
empowers B2C new services, B2B application 
in-depth development and low-altitude new 
economy. For V2X case, a built-in intelligent 
computing board can be added in 5G-A BBU for a 
heterogeneous computing power support and 
enabling more diﬀerentiated intelligent 
applications, such as 3rd/uni00A0 party platform 
deployment.
/uni00A0
In addition, ZTE has been engaged in AI 
application innovation for a long time. RAN 
Composer is the industry's /f_irst native-AI based 
RAN intelligence solution. On top of 5G-A BBU, the 
integration of 5G and AI at edge nodes brings 
traditional network resource management 
revolution, achieves user-centered experience 
with precise resources allocation based on 
network serving capability, service requirements 
and UE capability, enabling supreme user 
experience, higher energy eﬃciency and O&M 
eﬃciency.
/uni00A0
With 5G-A BBU, RAN Composer helps vertical 
industries achieve deterministic experience 
guarantees, adjusting resource allocation and 
scheduling strategies in real time through precise 
analysis of /f_lows and packets. In WISCO (Wuhan 
Iron and Steel Corporation) case, remote control of 
crane is a typical application with 
large-bandwidth video to be transmitted in the 
uplink and highly reliable control instructions 
need to be transmitted in the downlink. A 
diﬀerentiated scheduling strategy will be 
performed based on AI learning and recognition 
35 JUN 2024