What are Daisytek’s competitive 
advantages? 
There are a couple of things that drive our 
competitiveness in the market. But the main 
one is our ecosystem of solutions, and we 
provide for resellers, channels and retail. This 
ecosystem provides not just the /f_lexibility for 
any type of resellers in diﬀerent segments 
we work with, but also provides services, 
solutions and /f_inancing options that support 
their businesses in the long term, which is 
our core. We want to have long-term business 
relationship, and that’s why we are on our path 
to our 30th year next year.    
What are some of the principles guiding 
you in your role as CEO at Daisytek?
We always base our long-term mission and 
business strategy on our values, with integrity 
as our primary value. We have a very important 
commitment with our customers in terms of 
providing them with the best solutions and 
services to empower their businesses. Our slogan, 
which is empowering your businesses, re/f_lects 
our principle, and it guides our approach to the 
market.   
 
What trends or opportunities do you see 
for wholesalers like you?
I see there are three clear trends in the market. 
One is certainly the whole FTTx movement. There 
is a large trend in terms of moving customers 
from regular and standard cable solutions to /f_iber 
solutions in the internet space. I also see a large 
trend in terms of mobility, and we are investing 
largely in mobile segments. We want to provide 
not just tailored solutions but also smartphone 
devices with great prices for our customers. The 
last trend is cyber security.  
How would you utilize these 
opportunities? 
 
We are joining forces with the best brands and the best products. That’s why we 
are working closely with ZTE to deliver 
these kinds of solutions. I think ZTE has a 
unique value proposition in terms of the 
whole infrastructure and internet delivery 
solutions for the customers. ISPs, I think, 
value a lot what ZTE has to oﬀer. But we 
just need to provide them with diﬀerent 
options that can go along with their 
business model. In their subscription based 
business model, we need to support them 
in their recurring revenue they are getting. 
So we would be utilizing the opportunities 
that ZTE has in our joint partnership. 
                                                                                                                                                          
How would you assess ZTE’s 
products and services? What do you 
expect for the future cooperation 
with ZTE? 
 
I consider them as top-notch products 
and services. I think ZTE is a leading 
provider in the whole internet and ISP 
space, with a huge potential for growth. 
My expectation for this cooperation is to 
emerge as the largest distributor for ZTE 
in the country and to provide the best 
solutions and services for the internet 
space and the /f_iber optic segment.       
What are your main goals in the 
next few years?
Our main goal is always to be a key 
partner to our customers. We want to 
empower their businesses, which is our 
mission and main goal. That is going to serve 
as our main driver for the goals that we are 
going to have in the coming years. In this 
empowerment of our customers’ businesses, 
we are going to look at high-growth 
markets and increase our revenues. But 
most of all, we want to be focusing on 
being a very pro/f_itable company where 
we are diversi/f_ied, where we have a very 
service-focused business, and where 
customers see great value.
 
 DEC 2023
 05