FTTx Network Development and User 
Experience
TTx networks, based on the passive 
optical network (PON) technology, 
have been developing for more 
than 20 years. The global
FTTx penetration rate had exceeded 65% by 
the end of 2022. FTTx broadband has become 
an essential part for modern households, 
providing technical infrastructure for various 
applications such as high-speed Internet 
(HSI), video streaming, online education, and 
online oﬃce.
As network technology evolves over time, 
the O&M of FTTx networks has gradually 
changed from the previous rough mode, 
focusing on key performance indicators 
(KPIs), to a re/f_inement and 
experience-oriented approaches. User 
experience has becoming increasingly 
important. More than 64% of users consider 
user experience the most important factor 
when choosing a service provider, and 48% of 
users are willing to change providers for a 
better experience according to research. In 
addition, the COVID-19 has spurred a 
heightened demand for broadband user 
experience improvements, raising the bar for 
users’ expectations of their broadband 
network providers.
FTTx provides users with /f_ixed broadband 
services such as IPTV, video streaming, and 
Internet. The bandwidth and speed of FTTx 
networks used to be the major concerns of users. However, with the upgrading of PON 
technologies and continuous bandwidth 
acceleration, the network speed is no longer 
a bottleneck that limits user experience. 
Users have gradually become less sensitive to 
bandwidth increases. Instead, the focus has 
shifted towards service-speci/f_ic quality 
indicators, known as key quality indicators 
(KQIs), which include factors like delay, jitter, 
response success rate, response time, 
connection stability, and video smoothness. 
To monitor, quantify, analyze, and manage 
the user experience, customer experience 
management (CEM) systems have emerged. 
CEM Solution Helps to Improve User 
Experience
To align with operators’ shift from network 
performance-based O&M to user 
experience-based O&M, and to meet their 
needs for transitioning to big data 
operations, ZTE has launched the CEM 
solution for FTTx networks (Fig. 1). Positioned 
at the service quality and user experience 
layer, the CEM system can perceive the 
service experience of home broadband users, 
and provide accurate data support for 
analyzing low quality of experience (QoE) 
issues, delimiting and locating root cause, 
actively optimizing low QoE, and enhancing 
user satisfaction.
The CEM solution enables collaboration of 
the built-in blade in OLT with the big data 
analysis system to provide user 
CEM: A Powerful Tool for Analyzing 
Low QoE in FTTx Networks
F
FM Product Planning 
Manager, ZTEWei Xiu
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEC 2023
 31