network areas that cover tens of thousands of 
users have to be divided into several discrete 
sub-regions for phased FTTH network 
upgrades. On the other hand, with the 
increasing prevalence of FTTH construction, 
scenarios involving distributed deployments 
in rural, suburban, and island areas are on 
the rise. Continuing to employ traditional 
ODN centralized deployment approaches will 
inevitably reduce the utilization of OLT ports 
and the ODN network, which hinders the 
protection of investments.
Light PON Solution for Fast End-to-End 
FTTH Deployment
To address these challenges, Link Net made an 
extensive technical analysis and a business case 
study, and worked with ZTE to explore tailored 
solutions that cater to Link Net’s needs—the 
Light PON solution. This innovative modular 
network construction solution composes 
lightweight OLT, Light ODN, and cloud network 
management Zenic One. It can address the range 
of challenges that Link Net encounters when 
using traditional solutions, enabling Link Net 
to expedite FTTH deployment at a lower cost. 
Zero equipment room construction:  Using 
the small-capacity OLT product C610, there is 
no need to build an equipment room. It can 
be installed on existing steel poles, eﬀectively 
reducing the diﬃculty and cost associated with 
obtaining right-of-way permissions. 
Zero-con/f_iguration commissioning: 
Customized OLT zero-con/f_iguration 
commissioning technology enables 
personnel to commission the equipment 
without the need to visit the site. Based on 
calculations, for every 500 OLT installations, 
Link Net can save 120 person-days of work, 
resulting in a 99% increase in installation 
eﬃciency. 
Zero on-site fusion splicing:  By introducing 
pre-connectorized optical cables with 
connectors pre-installed in the factory, 
there is no need for on-site fusion splicing 
by the construction personnel. These 
pre-connectorized optical cables support 
 
PON technology for the construction of its /f_ixed 
broadband network. 
Throughout this process, Link Net has 
consistently selected ZTE as its partner to build 
FTTH networks and explore PON applications. 
After in-depth analysis of the /f_ixed-line 
market in Indonesia, Link Net took the lead in 
commercializing the Any PON solution in 2021, 
which enables its network to support GPON 
access while satisfying the uplink/downlink 
symmetric 10G PON bandwidth needs of 
government and enterprise users, as well as the 
smooth evolution to 10G PON for home users 
in the future. As the scale of FTTH construction 
continues to expand, Link Net not only considers 
optimal solutions for active equipment but also 
places increasing emphasis on cost savings within 
the ODN segment. Traditional FTTH construction 
modes come with the following challenges:
High costs of building a new equipment 
room: Traditional PON construction involves 
building a new equipment access room 
for optical line terminal (OLT), which has a 
large footprint, leading to high costs for site 
construction and right-of-way permits. 
Long debugging time:  Each OLT requires 
technical engineers to perform on-site 
service con/f_iguration, with a debugging and 
commissioning time of more than one day. 
Much /f_iber fusion splicing:  Traditional ADSS 
optical cables require core-by-core /f_iber fusion 
using a dedicated fusion splicer. Link Net 
needs skilled fusion splicing technicians to 
perform these operations. Moreover, due to 
the large number of /f_iber cores in ADSS cables, 
their installation is both time-consuming and 
labor-intensive. 
Diﬃcult optical network O&M:  In the FTTH 
network O&M phase, Link Net /f_inds that as 
ODN devices are replaced and some FTTH 
users disconnect, a growing number of 
ODN ports fail to be identi/f_ied in terms of 
their availability. Additionally, managing 
the ODN port connections results in 
substantial O&M costs.
Diﬃculties in planning for discrete regions: 
On the one hand, due to construction permits 
and user intentions, some existing HFC 
Success Story 
38 