fter the release of the 
XGS-PON standard in 2016, 
ITU-T embarked on research 
into next-generation PON
technology. In 2018, ITU-T determined 
that 50G PON would be the technology 
development direction after 10G PON. In 
the second half of 2021, the /f_irst version 
of the 50G PON standard was oﬃcially 
released. 50G PON, with a bandwidth /f_ive 
times higher than 10G PON, provides a 
better service experience to meet future 
requirements, covers more scenarios, and 
supports a smooth migration from 10G 
PON to 50G PON.
50G PON Technology and Industry 
Chain are Maturing
According to ITU-T G.9804, 50G PON 
provides a bandwidth /f_ive times higher 
than 10G PON, and supports a downlink 
single-wavelength rate of 50 Gbps and 
/f_lexible uplink rate options of 12.5 Gbps, 
25 Gbps, and 50 Gbps. 50G PON maintains 
the P2MP topology, and provides a coverage 
distance of up to 20 km with a splitting ratio 
of up to 1: 256, catering to bandwidth access 
from 10 Gbps to 50 Gbps. In the 50G PON 
rate veri/f_ication test carried out by German 
operator DNS:NET, 50G PON reached a 
downlink rate of 45.62 Gbps and an uplink 
rate of 21.87 Gbps.
50G PON uses single-/f_iber bidirectional 
transmission, employing broadcast 
mode in the downstream and TDMA in 
the upstream for point-to-multipoint 
50G PON: Evolution Direction 
Beyond 10G PON
Fixed Network 
Product Planning 
Manager, ZTELiu FangbinA
communication between OLTs and ONUs. 
Key technologies encompasses wavelength 
selection, line coding, line rate, FEC, 
common TC, and PHY layer components. 
ZTE is committed to improving 50G PON 
standards and industry chain maturity 
and has made signi/f_icant breakthroughs 
in some key component technologies. 
The company has submitted over 75 50G 
PON standard proposals, with those on 
technologies including the physical layer 
parameters, low latency, and FEC already 
adopted by standard organizations.
With the rapid growth of video 
services and the digital transformation of 
enterprises/campuses, there are increasing 
requirements for network determinacy 
that covers deterministic bandwidth, 
latency, and jitter control to support 
multiple business scenarios. Deterministic 
50G PON technology provides broadband 
scalability and is compatible with multiple 
access rates, enabling precise bandwidth  
control. Furthermore, it ensures high 
reliability by providing technical support 
for high-reliability service applications, 
including Ethernet uplink protection, 
Type B/C and hand-in-hand protection 
at the PON port level. By using the 
end-to-end low-latency rigid hard pipe 
technology, deterministic 50G PON can 
implement high-level service isolation, 
and construct rigid pipes with low latency 
and low jitter. Deterministic 50G PON also 
provides precise latency and jitter control 
capabilities to meet the requirements 
of industrial control scenarios that are 
 
 
 
 
Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic 
28 