ZTE Releases the 
Industry’s First Tbit 
All-Optical Access 
Platform
iForte and ZTE Sign an 
MOU on Telecom Energy 
Innovation to Fuel 
Sustainable Development 
of Network Infrastructure 
in Indonesia
30 October 2023  ⚷ ZTE and PT iForte 
Solusi Infotek, an Indonesian 
telecommunication infrastructure 
company and internet service provider, 
today announced a/uni00A0 strategic 
collaboration/uni00A0 on/uni00A0 telecom energy 
24 October 2023  ⚷ ZTE has/uni00A0unveiled 
the latest Tbit-level deterministic 
all-optical access platform, the/uni00A0 ZXA10 
C600E, at the/uni00A0Network X exhibition held 
in Paris, France. This new platform, 
developed for large-scale/uni00A0 50G PON/uni00A0
deployment, has garnered signi/f_icant 
industry attention and is poised to drive 
innovation in FTTx services while 
contributing to the growth of global 
optical /f_iber technology.innovation to fuel the sustainable 
development of the network 
infrastructure in Indonesia./uni00A0
/uni00A0Ferdinandus/uni00A0Aming Santoso, CEO and 
President Director of iForte and 
Protelindo Group, Mei Zhonghua, SVP of 
ZTE, and other executives from both 
sides have witnessed the signing 
ceremony./uni00A0 The MOU was signed by 
Handoko Siputro, Director of 
Procurement of PT iForte Solusi Infotek 
and Richard Liang, President Director of 
PT. ZTE Indonesia, at ZTE's/uni00A0headquarters 
in Shenzhen, China.
The collaboration aims to focus on 
in-depth cooperation on key product projects such as power supplies and 
batteries to promote innovation and 
sustainable development in Indonesia's 
network infrastructure market. The 
collaboration represents a signi/f_icant 
milestone in the future strategic 
cooperation between ZTE and iForte, 
marking their proactive exploration in 
the /f_ield of network energy./uni00A0
Aming Santoso, CEO and President 
Director of iForte and Protelindo Group, 
said: “Within merely one year, the 
footprint of ZTE in iForte has expanded 
massively. We hope ZTE will continue to 
support iForte with high-quality 
products and services to jointly promote 
the development of digital infrastructure 
and networks in Indonesia.”/uni00A0
The signing of this cooperation 
memorandum marks the beginning of a 
deeper collaboration between ZTE and 
iForte/uni00A0 that will facilitate the application 
of telecom energy innovation in 
Indonesia. Moreover, both parties will 
contribute positively to a sustainable 
future for Indonesia's network 
infrastructure by working together. 
 
 
 
 
ZTE Unveils RoomPON 
5.0, Rede/f_ining FTTR 
Solution at Network X 
2023
30 October 2023  ⚷ ZTE unveiled its 
latest all-optical series product, 
RoomPON 5.0, at Network X in Paris, 
France. RoomPON 5.0 represents a 
comprehensive upgrade in design, 
performance, functions, installation and 
O&M. It rede/f_ines the FTTR solution to 
oﬀer enhanced attractiveness and 
greater connotation. 
The RoomPON 5.0 features an 
innovative 10-inch screen that provides a comprehensive view of the entire 
home network, a /f_irst-of-its-kind feature 
that eliminates the need for 
applications to be hidden within a 
mobile phone app.
02 ZTE Ne ws 