Light ODN: Building a Visual, 
Manageable, and Easy-to-Maintain 
ODN
Fixed Network Product 
Planning Director, ZTEYang Yangs the deployment of /f_iber to the 
X (FTTx) network deployments 
continue to expand, the 
importance of the optical
distribution network (ODN) as the 
“nerve endings of the optical network" 
connecting millions of households is 
becoming increasingly evident. Each 
year, a massive amount of optical 
/f_iber is deployed across the globe, 
resulting in signi/f_icant amounts of dumb 
resources. Consequently, eﬃcient network 
construction and management of dark 
/f_iber resources have become critical 
for operators in building a competitive 
optical network.
Operators need a centralized, 
standardized, and full-lifecycle system 
to perform /f_ine-grained management of 
the dumb resources and dark pipes of 
the optical network. This system should 
serve as a real-time, accurate, and reliable 
intelligent management platform for 
network resources, and provide a scienti/f_ic 
and rational basis for network planning. 
The key requirements for the visual 
management of optical network resources 
are as follows:
Accurate data:  Data regarding 
optical network nodes, including site 
information, equipment information, 
network connections, equipment 
identi/f_iers, and port occupation, should 
be accurately collected, transmitted, Aand recorded.
Accurate routes:  Information about 
network routes, including routing 
topology information, information 
about same-pipe or same-cable routes, 
and route change information, should 
be accurately collected, transmitted, 
and recorded.
Accurate predictions:  Network resource 
usage and network performance 
trends should be accurately analyzed. 
Strategies for network topology 
optimization and network capacity 
expansion should be accurately 
predicted.
Light ODN Oﬀers Visual 
Management of ODNs
ZTE's Light ODN solution can help 
customers quickly create visual, manageable, 
and easy-to-maintain ODN networks for 
various application scenarios. It reduces 
the complexity of ODN operation and 
maintenance while also improving resource 
utilization eﬃciency to decrease redundant 
investments.
Light ODN comprises the FEB series 
pre-connectorized devices, prefabricated/uni00A0
cables, and an intelligent management 
platform. A mobile app is used to scan 
the QR codes on the pre-connectorized 
devices and the barcodes of the optical 
cables to collect their information. The 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USER 8 AA2145007001
USER 4 AA2145003001 Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic 
 14