FTTR-B Opens New Horizons for 
Small and Micro Enterprises
FM Product Planning 
Manager, ZTEZhao JingF
 
 
 
iber to the room (FTTR) all-optical 
networking is bringing a 
second /f_iber transformation 
revolution and is experiencing
explosive growth in China. The FTTR 
technology gives operators the con/f_idence to 
commit to bandwidth guarantees, the tool to 
fully utilize their installation and maintenance 
advantages, and the means to develop the 
small and micro enterprise (SME) market.
Traditionally, over 90% of SMEs build their 
own networks using equipment purchased 
from the open market. These networks lack 
uni/f_ied standards for design, deployment, 
and operation and maintenance (O&M), 
leading to issues like severe bandwidth 
bottlenecks, poor Wi-Fi coverage, frequent 
network failures, and diﬃculties in localizing 
faults. As a result, they cannot meet the 
digital transformation needs of enterprises.
As /f_iber-to-the-enterprise installation  inevitably 
transitions to /f_iber-in-the-enterprise 
deployment, ZTE has launched the FTTR 
to business (FTTR-B) solution to help 
SMEs build all-optical enterprise networks 
based on passive optical network (PON) 
technology. In the solution, the FTTR-B 
main optical network terminal (ONT) is 
the core device sitting at the entry to 
the enterprise network. The main ONT 
connects to the operator network through 
an uplink PON port and to several room 
ONTs via a downlink PON port to form an 
all-optical local area network (LAN). With 
its integration of the functions of an access 
gateway, a router, an access controller 
(AC), an integrated access device (IAD), and a power over Ethernet (PoE) switch, 
the main ONT enables all-in-one simpli/f_ied 
networking by replacing multiple devices 
essential to a traditional enterprise 
network. 
In addition, the solution uses /f_iber as 
the transmission medium and replaces the 
traditional P2P copper-based connectivity 
network with a point to multi point (P2MP) 
/f_iber-based optical distribution network 
(ODN) within the enterprise network. The 
ODN features compact devices, robust 
environmental adaptability, resistance to 
electromagnetic and lightning interference, 
and no need for equipment maintenance. 
Compared with cable, /f_iber has a much 
longer lifespan of up to 30 years, is much 
cheaper, and therefore can signi/f_icantly 
reduce the overall network construction cost. 
As shown in Fig. 1, the FTTR-B all-optical 
network solution can be used to replace 
the traditional self-built network approach 
of SMEs. By enabling the construction of an 
all-optical enterprise network characterized 
by superfast deployment, ultimate user 
experiences, and ultra-simpli/f_ied O&M, the 
solution can help SMEs with their digital 
transformation.
FTTR-B Helps Operators Reap Value 
in Installation, Maintenance and 
Management Services and Develop 
Value-Added Services
FTTR-B enhances network connectivity 
for enterprises, thereby increasing network 
revenue. By transitioning from a single /f_iber 
 
 
 
 
Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic 
24 