of both GPON and 10G PON. An Any-PON 
line card supports hybrid insertion of /f_ive 
optical module types: GPON, XG-PON, 
XG(S)-PON, XG-PON Combo, and XG(S)-PON 
Combo (Fig. 1).
There are two /f_lexible options for 
deploying a 10G PON network using 
Any-PON.
If there is a need for 10G PON 
deployment in the early stage of 
network construction, the direct 
connection of 10G PON optical 
modules to 10G PON ONUs is an option. 
Alternatively, 10G PON Combo optical 
modules can be used to connect 
both existing GPON ONUs and newly 
deployed 10G PON ONUs. Combo PON 
optical modules support the coexistence 
of GPON and 10G PON ONUs within the 
same ODN.
In the early stage of network construction, 
when there is no immediate need for 
10G PON services or in cases of budget 
constraints, an initial deployment of 
GPON can be considered to save on 
initial investments. When the opportunity 
arises, the upgrade to 10G PON can be 
made by replacing optical modules and 
implementing the right to use (RTU) 
method.
Any-PON oﬀers the advantage of 
building 10G PON-ready networks with 
smooth evolution capability. Existing OLT 
chassis and line cards remain unchanged, 
and the deployed ODN is not aﬀected. 
Any-PON can be /f_lexibly upgraded to 10G PON to align with service development, 
cost reduction, and capital investment.
ZTE Leads the Way in 10G PON 
Deployment
As a member of ITU-T and FSAN, as well 
as a technical leader in the optical access 
/f_ield, ZTE has been /f_irmly committed to 
advancing the maturity and widespread 
application of the 10G PON industry chain. 
Over the past /f_ive years, ZTE’s global 
10G PON shipments have experienced a 
remarkable 95% compound annual growth 
rate (CAGR). Speci/f_ically, in 2022, 10G PON 
shipments increased by 130% compared 
with 2021. ZTE has consistently held a Top 
2 position in global 10G PON market share 
and secured the Top 1 spot in China for 
2022. Additionally, ZTE has established 
partnerships with over 150 operators in the 
10G PON sector.
The exceptional performance in 
these markets is a result of sustained 
technological investment and strong 
customer collaboration. ZTE's commitment 
to consolidating its core capabilities and 
driving continuous technical innovation 
is evident. This includes groundbreaking 
industry initiatives, such as introducing the 
Combo PON concept , leading the industry's 
/f_irst commercial deployment supporting 
10G PON, and oﬀering the /f_irst 16-port 
XG(S)-PON/Combo PON/Any-PON line cards.  
ZTE consistently delivers high-quality 
product solutions and services to its global 
customers.
Any-PON card
GPON+10G PONGPON ONU
10G PON ONU10G PON ONU
GPON ONU
XG-PON Combo GPON XG(S)-PON
 XG-PON XG(S)-PON Combo
 Any-PONFig. 1. Network architecture of 
the Any-PON solution.DEC 2023 
 09