average bandwidth requirement. Typically, 
burst bandwidth can be 3–5 times that of 
the average bandwidth. 
Four Key Principles for 10G PON 
Construction
Network construction ahead of service 
provision:  Network construction forms the 
foundation for service development and 
must be done ahead of service growth. 
Considering future network upgrade 
and evolution requirements, network 
construction requires early planning and a 
forward-looking approach. 
Step by step:  Network construction is 
not a one-time eﬀort but an ongoing 
development process. Network 
deployment leads the way, and customer 
premise equipment (CPE) is connected 
as needed. Throughout the construction 
process, multiple factors such as service 
development, market competition, and 
capital investment must be taken into 
account. 
Targeting high-value users with high 
ARPU:  Network construction should foster 
user development and pro/f_it generation 
by enhancing ARPU and customer 
stickiness, positioning it ahead of market 
competition. Considering end-to-end bandwidth 
acceleration:  FBB network acceleration 
is an end-to-end project spanning from 
the core layer to the bearer layer and the 
access layer. Any of these components may 
impact the eﬀectiveness of bandwidth 
acceleration, including Wi-Fi and PON 
technology upgrades, the availability of 
suﬃcient uplink and downlink bandwidth, 
and the appropriate splitting ratio.
10G PON provides four times the 
bandwidth capacity of GPON and delivers 
symmetric bandwidth to cater to the 
requirements of high-bandwidth symmetric 
services, such as enterprise private lines, 
campus private networks, and industrial 
applications. In addition, 10G PON provides 
end-to-end gigabit access for FTTx, coupled 
with Wi-Fi 6/Wi-Fi 7 technologies. 
Any-PON: An Excellent Choice for 10G 
PON Deploymen t
ZTE recommends adopting the 
pay-as-you-grow Any-PON approach for 
building a 10G PON network, ensuring 
network upgrades. 
Any-PON uses diﬀerent optical modules 
on a line card to connect diﬀerent ONUs, 
enabling /f_lexible on-demand deployment 
 
 
 Expert View
08 