optical network (XGS-PON) technology in the 
uplink, which enables it to deliver bandwidth 
ranging from 1 Gbps to 10 Gbps to an SME. 
In the downlink, the ONT employs GPON 
technology to allow for gigabit-plus access 
experiences. The ONT is also equipped with 
a 2.5 Gigabit Ethernet (GE) port to ensure 
both wired and wireless speeds of over 2000 
Mbps, meeting the requirements of various 
application scenarios such as wired network 
expansion and intranet server deployment of 
the enterprise.
The ceiling-mounted all-optical Wi-Fi 6 AP 
deliver seamless gigabit Wi-Fi coverage 
without any dead zones in SMEs.
The FTTR-B main ONT integrates access 
controller (AC) functionality to perform 
centralized control and management of 
all wireless APs in the network, including 
con/f_iguration delivery, parameter 
modi/f_ication, intelligent radio frequency 
management, and access security control. 
Integrating the AC functionality into the 
ONT optimizes resources, enhances data 
forwarding eﬃciency, and uni/f_ies AP 
policies and AP management at the ONT to 
implement /f_lexible network expansion.
The FTTR-B network has a uni/f_ied 
authentication point for both wired and 
wireless access. Switchover between wired 10G PON and 50G PON without re-cabling, 
protecting the investments of SMEs.
The FTTR-B solution utilizes power 
over /f_iber (PoF) technology to address the 
challenge of powering networks within SMEs. 
PoF provides power over a photoelectric 
composite cable. While the traditional 
copper cable used in power over Ethernet 
(PoE) technology can deliver power only 
over a distance of less than 100 meters, the 
photoelectric composite cable can supply 
15W of power within an 800-meter range. 
The photoelectric composite cable is easier 
to deploy and costs less than that of the 
Category 6 copper cable, making it the best 
option for an enterprise network. In scenarios 
requiring power supply over a long distance, 
the photoelectric composite cable can be 
used to facilitate the rapid deployment of the 
FTTR-B network.
Ultimate User Experience
The FTTR-B network oﬀers 2 Gbps 
bandwidth through both wired and wireless 
connections, delivers low latency, and 
enables /f_lexible capacity expansion and 
uni/f_ied authentication.
The FTTR-B main ONT uses 
10-Gigabit-capable symmetric passive 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. FTTR-B solution 
for SMEs.OLT MSE/BRAS FTTR-B main ONT
Ceiling-mounted AP
Desktop room ONT Intranet
SCPIntelligent 
management platformAppSeamless Wi-Fi coverage
Internet
Splitter
 
 
 
 
 
Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic 
26 