ZENIC ONE 2.0: Building an E2E 
FTTx O&M System
Chief Engineer for Fixed 
Network Product 
Planning, ZTEZhu Zhenghuand-to-end (E2E) management and 
O&M of FTTx networks is the key to 
ensuring the smooth operation of 
the entire network system. 
This includes the whole processes from 
planning, construction and maintenance to 
optimization, enabling operators to 
implement precision marketing. Only a 
uni/f_ied platform can improve O&M eﬃciency, 
optimize information systems, improve 
network quality, and further improve the 
service experience.
The O&M process involves many aspects, 
with fault processing being the most 
important. Statistics shows that home 
network faults account for 59%, access 
network faults account for 28%, and content 
source faults account for 13% of the total. 
During FTTx O&M, isolated systems face many 
challenges. Firstly, the faults are widely 
distributed across diﬀerent segments, and 
only the E2E system can accurately locate the 
faults. Secondly, there are many types of 
faults, resulting in time-consuming 
processing. Implementing E2E comprehensive  
analysis, eﬃcient compression, and 
correlation analysis can improve the 
eﬃciency. Finally, the alarm information is 
often scattered. Only a uni/f_ied platform 
supporting information sharing can realize 
E2E system optimization, improve network 
quality and enhance the service experience.
To meet market demands, ZTE has 
developed the ZENIC ONE 2.0, an E2E 
management system based on a uni/f_ied PaaS 
platform. This system integrates multiple Esystems, including the CO-end management, 
control and analysis system ZENIC ONE, the 
CPE management cloud platform SCP , and the 
home broadband service perception analysis 
system CEM, to enable cross-domain 
interoperability. The function modules on the 
ZENIC ONE 2.0 can be combined or separated 
to implement on-demand /f_lexible 
deployment. 
The ZENIC ONE 2.0 E2E system (Fig. 1) not 
only manages OLTs, ODNs and home 
networks to implement E2E management at 
the network layer but also pays attention to 
user service experience and provides user 
experience management. 
During the O&M process, the ZENIC ONE 
system provides corresponding functions in 
all four stages of maintenance, optimization, 
marketing and planning, aiding operators in 
achieving autonomous network. Below, the 
functions in the areas of maintenance, 
optimization, marketing, and planning are 
described in detail.
E2E Display for Enhanced 
Maintenance
E2E network topology display to enable 
manageable networks:  The ZENIC ONE 
system supports E2E network topology 
display of the access network, enabling 
visual management of the entire network. 
This includes visualization of user service, 
highlighting service quality and low QoE 
occurrence. It also includes visualization of 
the home network with clear display of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic 
18 