r. Hu believes that the 
global /f_iberization process is 
accelerating in the new era. 
The average FTTx penetration 
rate worldwide is expected to increase 
from 69.9% in 2022 to 80.2% in 2027, with 
projections nearing 90% in regions such 
as Asia, Eastern Europe, North America, 
and Latin America. However, global digital 
development remains imbalanced. Statistics 
reveal that 34% of the global population 
lacks Internet connectivity, with even 
higher proportions in speci/f_ic countries 
and regions. Developed countries boast an 
80% connectivity rate compared to 36% in 
developing countries. Urban areas achieve 
82% connectivity, while rural regions lag at 
45%. Furthermore, there’s a substantial gap 
between high-income and low-income areas, 
with rates of 92% and 26%, respectively.
In this critical period of global digital 
transformation, leveraging the role of /f_iber 
infrastructures becomes even more essential. 
Ubiquitous /f_iber access is key to establishing 
fair access and bridging the digital divide in 
various regions of the world. In fact, numerous 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ZTE’s Hu Junjie: All-Optical 
Foundation Inspires New 
Experience in Digital Era
Source: Mobile World Live
M
countries worldwide have implemented 
national strategies for /f_iber development. 
Examples include the Net Pracharat project 
in Thailand, the Decent Life initiative in 
Egypt, and Italy’s Piano Italia a 1 Giga project. 
These initiatives aim to enhance Internet 
access, education, healthcare, employment 
opportunities, and digitalization in rural areas 
of their respective countries.
On the other hand, /f_iber development 
continues to expand and deepen, further 
reducing the experience gap among diﬀerent 
household members, including seniors and 
children, and fostering the creation of a 
digital home. For instance, to address the 
security needs of seniors and children, Chinese 
operators employ the FTTR all-optical home 
network architecture, integrating smart 
speakers, AI cameras, visual door locks, and 
doorbells to provide comprehensive security 
solutions for smart homes, ensuring multiple 
layers of security.
As the global aging process accelerates, 
the focus on elderly care and senior-friendly 
technologies has intensi/f_ied. In Fujian Province, 
China, a demonstration community-based 
Hu Junjie delivering a keynote speechHu Junjie, Vice President and General Manager of Wireline Marketing at ZTE, has delivered a keynote 
speech titled “All-Optical Foundation Inspires New Experience in Digital Era” at Network X, an event 
held by Informa in Paris, France. During his presentation, Mr. Hu shared ZTE’s insights and practices 
in the development, deployment and evolution of optical networks.
40 Press Clipping 