function, the platform collects and analyzes 
relevant information to continuously tune the 
channel, enabling users to enjoy an 
increasingly better Wi-Fi experience.
Content Source Optimization
The ZENIC ONE 2.0 system analyzes content 
sources, encompassing access users and 
access traﬃc, and presents the /f_indings 
through graphs. It provides a detailed list of 
the service quality of each content source, 
enabling operators to gain a comprehensive 
understanding of the content source quality. A 
content source with a low score is identi/f_ied as 
a low QoE content source. The system 
generates a list of low QoE content sources, 
accentuating the low QoE indicators, to aid 
operators in optimizing content sources.
Utilizing AI for Enhanced Precision 
Marketing
The ZENIC ONE 2.0 system introduces a new 
way of marketing — precision marketing. The 
customer experience management subsystem 
within the system collects and extracts data 
from the built-in blade server, enabling the 
generation of multi-dimensional 
con/f_iguration /f_iles. Meanwhile, these 
multi-dimensional user /f_iles can be integrated 
with other service data to form user pro/f_iles. 
This empowers operators to execute precision 
marketing based on home terminals, 
packages, and membership, preventing 
customer churn.
In fact, with the continuous optimization of 
the AI algorithm, operators can make 
comprehensive user analysis and recommend 
customized packages. This not only saves 
marketing costs but also signi/f_icantly 
increases sales eﬃciency. For instance, home 
Wi-Fi can be recommended for users with 
poor network coverage, game acceleration 
services for online gamers, livestream 
acceleration services for Internet celebrities. In 
recent years, the ZENIC ONE 2.0 has helped 
China Unicom and China Mobile achieve remarkable results in precision marketing and 
customer satisfaction improvement.  
Traﬃc Analysis for More Eﬃcient 
Planning
The ZENIC ONE 2.0 system provides 
expansion or service planning suggestions 
through analysis and calculation based on 
existing network resources and traﬃc. If the 
uplink or downlink peak bandwidth usage of 
the uplink port and PON port exceeds 70%, it 
suggests expanding the capacity of the OLT or 
PON port. It can identify the key areas for 
business development by analyzing the 
concurrent installation rate of ONTs and STBs, as 
well as plan key user development areas by 
analyzing the number of connected users. 
The system can also analyze the average 
video service traﬃc of users in diﬀerent areas to 
support the expansion of self-operated STB 
services, and plan the STB service development 
according to the concurrent installation rates of 
diﬀerent terminals in speci/f_ic areas.
Summary
The ZENIC ONE 2.0 E2E system not only 
covers the entire FTTx network, providing 
management and network analysis functions 
for OLTs, visual topology for dumb ODN 
resources, and remote tuning function for 
home networks, but also focuses on user 
experience and identi/f_ies low QoE users 
through E2E service analysis to prevent 
potential risks and actively improve user 
experience. 
The system provides full support for 
operators during the whole process of 
“maintenance, optimization, marketing, and 
planning” . It a powerful tool for the operators’ 
autonomous network development and can 
eﬀectively promote their revenue growth. 
Having been fully veri/f_ied and acknowledged by 
China Mobile, the ZENIC ONE 2.0 will help more 
operators worldwide to implement E2E 
management of FTTx networks.
 
 
 
 
 
Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic 
20 