esh Wi-Fi has now become the 
dominant choice for home 
users. Managing home network 
devices eﬃciently from a
remote location and monitoring the quality 
of home Wi-Fi has emerged as a new 
challenge for operators. To address this, ZTE 
has launched the smart cloud platform (SCP), 
the industry’s /f_irst integrated management 
platform. Designed to align with the 
development trends and management 
characteristics of customer premises 
equipment (CPE), SCP empowers operators 
to visualize and control home Wi-Fi networks, 
enhancing the quality of home Wi-Fi 
experience. Its rich functionalities oﬀer 
substantial value to various departments 
within the operator, assisting the O&M 
department in enhancing operational 
eﬃciency, the marketing department in 
increasing revenue generation, and the  
provisioning department in improving 
installation eﬃciency.
Enabling Remote Home Network 
Management: Transitioning from 
“Black Box” to Visible and 
Manageable Operations
The ZTE SCP is the industry’s /f_irst integrated 
platform that can manage mesh access points 
(APs), IP cameras (IPCs), and /f_iber to the room 
(FTTR) devices simultaneously. Based on ZTE’s 
/f_lexible and open-source TECS cloud 
foundation (TCF), SCP supports interactions 
with managed devices through protocols like MQTT, WebSocket, TR-069, and TR-157 BDC. 
Combined with AI and big data analysis 
technologies, it enables remote visual 
con/f_iguration management of home 
networks. It provides real-time insights into 
the current and historical performance of 
home networks, transforming operational 
management from a “black box” into a 
visible and manageable system (Fig. 1) .
Opex Savings: Rapid Fault Handling 
with Abundant NBIs and Third-Party 
Device Management via Open SBIs  
For the O&M department of the operator, 
SCP possesses leading capabilities in Wi-Fi 
network analysis and diagnosis and oﬀers a 
wide range of northbound interfaces (NBIs) 
and southbound interfaces (SBIs). It allows 
engineers to quickly locate faults in home 
networks based on various factors, such as 
interference, coverage, connectivity, site, and 
device. It also supports solving some faults 
remotely with the click of a button. 
Abundant NBIs for rapid fault handling: 
SCP provides a variety of NBIs to connect 
with operators’ existing operation 
support systems (OSSs), enabling call 
center agents to handle faults online. 
When a user contacts the call center to 
report a fault, an agent can quickly 
follow the procedure described in the 
operation guide to locate and resolve the 
fault. This reduces the need for engineer 
visits and boosts user satisfaction.
Open SBIs for connecting with third-party 
 
Smart Cloud Platform : 
Wi-Fi in Hands, Experience in Mind
M
SCP International 
Marketing 
Representative, ZTEZhang Lin DEC 2023
 21