renders ODN topology and links visible 
and manageable and makes resource 
statistics constantly accurate. On that basis, 
it constructs an intelligent, real-time, and 
accurate optical network monitoring system, 
thereby enhancing operational eﬃciencies 
and reducing operational costs. 
In addition to enabling rapid network 
construction, Light ODN allows for the 
optimization of ODNs and the visualization 
of dumb resources. It advances the 
application of PON technology in enterprise, 
campus, and home scenarios like /f_iber to 
the room (FTTR). By combining the NMS of 
the ODN with the element management 
system (EMS) of the OLT, Light ODN creates 
an end-to-end fully visualized PON network 
that serves as an intelligent foundation of 
all-optical access.
On top of its existing features like 
pre-connectorization, image recognition, 
automatic data synchronization, and network topology restoration, Light ODN 
will incorporate research results in areas 
such as /f_iber sensing and intelligent analysis 
and prediction. It will combine AI analysis 
and prediction applications, and integrate 
key technologies such as all-parameter 
perception of optical networks, automatic 
topology discovery, real-time link 
monitoring, fault location and delineation, 
and risk prediction and warning to help 
operators build digitalized, intelligent FTTx 
networks with integrated sensing and 
communication capabilities.
ZTE's Light ODN solution has been 
deployed in multiple countries including 
Peru and Indonesia. In addition to helping 
operators rapidly build ODNs, it also makes 
optical network topologies visible and 
optical network resources manageable, 
enhancing the utilization eﬃciency of optical 
infrastructure and achieving a win-win with 
the customers.
 Fig. 2. Link diagnosis 
results page.X
OLT Status Normal
OLT PON Port Status is normal
OTDR device is not con/f_igured
Distribution Fiber BrokenLink Channel AnalysisTest Type Test Result
Diagnosis View ZTEGD22C5799 (ONU)
X
 
 
 
 
DEC 2023 
 17