ZTE Light ODN Solution 
Facilitates Fast Deployment 
of Intelligent Network for 
Bitel in PeruChina Mobile and ZTE 
Deploy the Industry’s First 
Service Container Level 
Digital Twin NetworkZTE Unveils High-Quality 
Series Servers at the ZTE 
5G Summit & User 
Congress 2023
ZTE and Computer Union 
Join Forces on Cutting 
Edge IT Solutions in 
Thailand
 
 
15 November 2023 ⚷ ZTE has 
entered into a collaboration 
agreement with Computer Union, 
Thailand's leading IT solution 
distributor, to collaborate on 
cutting-edge IT solutions under its 
latest strategic partnership project.
The contract was signed in 
Bangkok Thailand by Mr.Teera 
Phutrakul, Chairman of Computer 
Union and Mr.Han Zhiming, Managing 
Director of ZTE Thailand. The signing 
was witnessed and attended by Miss. 
Pawasut Seewirot, Director of 
Saha-Union, Mr. Mei Zhonghua, 
Senior Vice President of ZTE and Mr. 
Zhang Wanchun, Senior Vice 
President of ZTE.
The main goal of this agreement is to formalize the interaction and 
strengthen the relationship between 
Computer Union and ZTE at both 
strategic and working levels, stimulate 
and facilitate the development of 
collaborative and mutually bene/f_icial 
activities which serve to achieve 
heightened levels of productivity, 
eﬃciency and pro/f_itability for their 
partners.
ZTE has the advantage of 
integrating various resources from 
software and hardware manufacturers, 
solution providers, and service 
providers, and providing customers 
with more advanced and reliable solutions through continuous R&D 
investment and technological 
innovation. Through the agreement, 
Computer Union’s Value Added 
Solutions team, lead by Mr. Darwin 
Darakananda , Head of Business 
Development, will explore ZTE 
oﬀerings to expand its product catalog 
diversities and provide a 
comprehensive suite of solutions that 
meet the requirements of more clients. 
ZTE is committed to dedicating time 
and expertise to support Computer 
Union’s vision of establishing a solid 
digital foundation and exploring 
Thailand’s digital market together.
30 October 2023 ⚷ ZTE and Bitel 
Peru have successfully completed 
extensive deployment of a 100K HHPP 
FTTH network, utilizing ZTE’s 
industry-leading innovative Light ODN 
solution. The implementation has 
enabled the intelligentization of passive 
networks during rapid construction, 
making optical distribution networks 
(ODNs) visible, manageable, and 
controllable.10 November 2023 ⚷ ZTE, in 
collaboration with China Mobile’s Fujian 
Branch, has deployed the industry’s /f_irst 
service container level digital twin 
network throughout Fujian province 
with more than 10 million subscribers. 
The network employs innovative 
technologies for driving the development 
in network automation and intelligence. 
Also, it signi/f_icantly improves customer 
experience and reduces OPEX.15 November 2023 ⚷ ZTE showcased 
high-quality servers at the ZTE 5G 
Summit & User Congress 2023 in 
Bangkok, Thailand, providing 
enterprises and operators with excellent 
data center infrastructure support. 
Themed “Embrace the Digital Nexus,” 
this summit was held to explore the 
innovation path of digital broadband 
transformation together with global 
partners and industry elites.
 
 03 DEC 202 3