operators, equipment vendors, and 
content service providers to create an 
industry ecosystem.
As a powerful tool for operators to expand 
the enterprise market, FTTR-B has huge 
potential. Statistics show that, by the end of 
2022, there were over 52 million enterprises 
in China, with the FTTR-B market exceeding 
2.5 billion yuan. In the Chinese market, 
tenders for over 160,000 sets of FTTR-B 
devices were completed in the /f_irst half of 
2023, and this /f_igure is projected to surpass 
2 million by 2026. In international markets, 
SMEs including hotels, shopping malls, 
and campuses are experiencing a growing 
demand for broadband upgrades, and they 
increasingly need FTTR-B to transform their 
networks.
By deploying the FTTR-B solution, 
operators can expand their cloud 
customer base among SMEs, increase 
service revenue, and enhance customer 
stickiness. FTTR-B all-optical networking 
is poised to help operators tap the 
blue-ocean market of SMEs as a new 
avenue for growth.
and wireless is imperceptible to users. 
Wireless roaming handover is superfast 
without being perceived by users. 
These features ensure smooth and 
uninterrupted services and enhance user 
experiences.
Ultra Simple O&M
The FTTR-B solution provides one-stop 
network O&M that covers planning, 
installation, acceptance, maintenance, 
and optimization, providing enterprise 
customers with con/f_idence in the reliability 
of their networks.
SMEs usually have a limited budget 
for network O&M and lack a network 
management platform or dedicated O&M 
personnel. The FTTR-B solution uses a 
combination of the SCP and a mobile O&M 
app to simplify network O&M by making it 
lightweight and visual.
The O&M app simpli/f_ies installation and 
maintenance, implements fast service 
provisioning, and standardizes network 
installation and acceptance. It oﬀers 
one-click performance optimization and 
remote fault localization to reduce OPEX 
by 30%.
The solution utilizes AI and big data 
technology to provide diﬀerent 
bandwidths for VIP and regular users, 
accelerate enterprise applications, and 
intercept entertainment applications, 
thus ensuring an eﬃcient enterprise 
network.
The solution has uni/f_ied user 
authentication policies to identify users 
and match them with services. It provides 
portal authentication, allowing both 
wired and wireless IPs to be identi/f_ied as 
natural person users, with authentication 
policies stored in the cloud. When a user 
moves to another location, there is no 
need for re-authentication. This makes 
it easy for operators to provide targeted 
advertisements and personalized 
oﬀerings, fostering connections among 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEC 2023
 27