C89E further enhances equipment stability by 
adopting a hardware separation design from 
control boards and switching boards. 
High-reliability control:  This feature is 
achieved through complete isolation 
between control and forwarding planes, 
with a multi-core multi-process processing 
mechanism that ensures device management, 
route calculation and entry synchronization 
do not aﬀect each other. 
High-reliability system:  ZXR10 C89E boasts a 
fully distributed software system architecture, 
supporting intelligent, dynamic loading 
and updates at the process level, allowing 
/f_lexible addition of new functions without 
interrupting service upgrades. It also supports 
distributed protocol processing to increase 
eﬃciency and stability. 
Comprehensive security protocols:  ZXR10 
C89E provides secure SSH login modes and 
user-level access control. It oﬀers various 
protocol security protection methods, 
including ARP, STP, DHCP, and robust routing 
protocol encryption algorithms to ensure 
protocol security. 
All-round reliability functions:  ZXR10 C89E 
provides a comprehensive set of reliability 
features including ERPS, FRR, GR, Ethernet 
OAM, MC-LAG, and other service protection 
functions. These functions can ensure 
network security.
Abundant IPv6 Functions to Facilitate 
Network Transformation
ZXR10 C89E supports basic IPv6 protocols 
such as RIPng, OSPFv3, IS-ISv6 and BGP4+, along 
with carrier-class IPv6 functions like DHCPv6 
snooping and PIMv6. Furthermore, it boasts 
robust IPv6 forwarding and routing capabilities 
and supports dual-stack deployment for 
both IPv4 and IPv6. The system also provides 
comprehensive IPv6 management and 
maintenance, ensuring high security and 
reliability. Additionally, ZXR10 C89E supports 
IPv4 to IPv6 tunnel conversion to facilitate a 
smooth transition from IPv4 to IPv6. 
 
Green, Energy-Eﬃcient, and 
Eco-Friendly
ZXR10 C89E features a highly eﬃcient 
power system, minimizing power conversion 
losses. Its advanced chip technology reduces 
component energy consumption, resulting 
in reduced operational power consumption. 
Dynamic speed-controlled fans support 
continuous speed adjustment. It is also 
compatible with a 240V/380V high-voltage 
direct current supply system, enhancing power 
eﬃciency of the equipment room. Complying 
with lead-free RoHS, WEEE, and ISO14001 
standards, ZXR10 C89E utilizes eco-friendly 
packaging materials, aligning with the “Green 
Earth, Nature Care” philosophy.
Network Virtualization and  SDN Free 
Mobility
ZXR10 C89E oﬀers the functionality of VxLAN 
virtual network  and SDN free mobility.
VxLAN virtual network: ZXR10 C89E builds a 
VxLAN overlay virtual network on the basis of 
traditional L2 and L3 networks, achieving the 
decoupling of network identity from physical 
location. Through the use of the BGP-EVPN 
protocol,  VxLAN tunnels can be automatically 
created, enabling the automatic provisioning 
of virtual networks. 
SDN free mobility: ZXR10 C89E provides 
user group-based identity authentication 
and automatic SDN controller policy 
delivery, enabling automatic provisioning 
of user services and eliminating the need 
for secondary authentication during user 
roaming.
The ZXR10 C89E series switch is a new 
generation of core switch developed by ZTE 
based on its self-developed architecture. It 
oﬀers high capacity and high performance while 
fully ensuring the high reliability and availability 
of the system. It builds new-generation data 
networks and accelerates digital transformation 
for customers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic
36