Basic view of the ODN, which shows 
information such as device types, device 
serial numbers (SNs), device names, and 
split ratios.
Routing topology of the deployed 
devices, which is produced using 
AI-based  analysis.
Status information, including device 
alarms and /f_iber break alarms, of the 
optical links of optical network units 
(ONUs). The information is displayed in 
both images and text.
Light ODN is able to diagnose ODN 
links (Fig. 2). When an ONU goes oﬄine, the 
NMS initiates diagnosis of the ONU's link 
and records the range of the /f_iber break 
in the topology view. This makes it easy to 
discover and troubleshoot the fault.
Light ODN Implements Real-Time 
Fault Location and Visualizes Fiber 
Health Status for Eﬃcient O&M
Light ODN achieves remote, real-time, 
and automatic monitoring of the quality 
of /f_ibers across the entire optical network, 
covering optical access networks, optical 
mobile backhaul networks, optical 
metropolitan area networks, optical 
backbone networks, and optical data 
centers. The monitoring encompasses 
detecting changes in the transmission 
characteristics of /f_ibers and predicting 
the trends of the changes. After a fault is 
discovered, the NMS promptly issues an 
alarm and quickly and accurately locates 
the fault to facilitate troubleshooting 
and reduce the workload of maintenance 
personnel. This function oﬀers reliable 
assurances for the maintenance of the 
optical network. Key features of Light ODN 
in /f_iber monitoring include:
Centralized /f_iber monitoring system:  
The /f_iber monitoring system can monitor 
a greater quantity and a wider variety of 
/f_iber resources. Monitored device resources are shared to improve the utilization of the 
monitoring system.
Diverse detection methods:  To meet 
diﬀerent scenarios and requirements, the 
monitoring system supports detection by 
diﬀerent combinations of parameters like 
pulse width, dynamic range, resolution, 
and time.
Real-time fault monitoring:  Depending 
on the user's requirements, the 
monitoring system supports periodic or 
real-time fault monitoring using a polling 
mechanism. When a fault is detected in 
the optical network, the system promptly 
issues a fault alarm to speed up the O&M 
response.
Intelligent identi/f_ication of /f_iber 
events:  Powerful algorithms are used 
to identify /f_iber events intelligently. The 
identi/f_ication results are then compared 
against the /f_iber health database to 
accurately diagnose /f_iber events.
Visualized fault location:  Fault points 
detected by the monitoring system 
are displayed in real time on a GIS 
map, making it easy to quickly /f_ind the 
actual fault locations and troubleshoot 
the faults.
Extensive system interfaces:  The 
monitoring system supports functions 
such as northbound interfaces, 
southbound interfaces, and reports and 
statistics. It can seamlessly interconnect 
with the operation support system (OSS) 
to provide operators with more-intuitive 
monitoring results to facilitate O&M.
Light ODN Guarantees Sustainable 
Development of ODN Networks
The Light ODN solution is designed 
in light of the development trends and 
key requirements of optical network 
construction. It aims to enable the eﬃcient 
and fast building of secure, reliable, and 
fully visible optical networks. Leveraging 
innovative AI technology, Light ODN 
 
 
 
 
 
 Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic
16 