Policy support:  According to a World 
Bank report, every 10% increase in /f_ixed 
broadband penetration is associated 
with a 1.38% increase in GDP growth, 
and each doubling of bandwidth results 
in a 0.3% increase in GDP growth. 
More than 140 countries and regions 
worldwide have elevated broadband 
network development to the level of a 
national strategic priority. Some have 
even included gigabit networks in 
their development plans. For example, 
the Chinese government proposed 
the “dual-gigabit dual-acceleration” 
plan, the European Union released 
the Gigabit Community Plan, the 
German government proposed the 
Gigabit Germany Plan, and the Italian 
government launched the 1 Giga 
strategy. These national policies and 
/f_inancial support mechanisms provide 
essential guidance and positive 
incentives.
Competition-driven:  Operators are 
currently engaged in /f_ierce market 
competition to secure more user resources 
and maximize their pro/f_its. It is critical 
for the operators to use diﬀerentiated 
technologies and services to maintain a 
competitive edge. This includes oﬀering 
attractive service packages to improve 
customer quality of experience (QoE) and ensure a competitive advantage.
Network upgrade and reconstruction: 
As the service life of traditional PSTN, 
DSL, and DOCSIS network technologies 
and devices progresses, they no longer 
meet the demands of the new era. For 
example, some OLT devices that have 
been used for over a decade have reached 
the end of their life cycles. They cannot 
be upgraded or maintained to support 
new functionalities and performance 
requirements and thus necessitate an 
upgrade to a new device platform.
Continuous decline in 10G PON costs: 
The extensive development of 10G PON 
is also driving continuous cost reductions. 
According to statistics from the consulting 
/f_irm Dells’ Oro Group, the price of 10G PON 
ports decreased by 43% from 2018 to 2022, 
while the cost of 10G PON ONUs dropped 
by 62%, making the cost-eﬀective 
deployment of 10G PON feasible. Due to 
the point-to-multipoint (P2MP) nature of 
PON, the reduction in PON device prices 
depends on the decrease in ONU costs.
Moreover, the higher bandwidth of 
10G PON translates to faster rates and an 
enhanced user experience. Considering 
the tidal and pinpointing eﬀects, the 
network must accommodate burst 
bandwidth needs rather than just the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The global deployment of 10G PON 
is accelerating, and the next three 
years are expected to be a prime 
window for 10G PON deployment.
/gid00052/gid00084/gid00077/gid00001/gid00043/gid00072/gid00077
DEC 2023 
 07