smart home for senior care has been 
established. This innovative project leverages 
FTTR home all-optical networking, along 
with the integration of smart speakers and 
healthcare devices. The smart speakers play a 
multifaceted role by oﬀering health detection, 
medical care support, and companionship, 
making senior care both smart and 
compassionate.
Over the past three decades, optical 
networks have played an indispensable role 
in the continuous evolution of bandwidth 
capabilities, ranging from 56k to 10G, and 
the rapid development of applications, 
transitioning from traditional web browsing 
to intelligent applications. WDM networks 
have progressed from single-wavelength 
2.5G at the end of the twentieth century to 
the current single-wavelength 400G/800G 
era. WDM networks have been originally 
applied only for backbone, while by now they 
have been expanded to all scenarios of ULH 
backbone, core metro, DCI, 5-in-1 access as 
well as SDH replacement. The access network 
is undergoing a transformation, shifting 
from G/EPON to XGS-PON and 50G PON, 
establishing a robust optical foundation for 
the advancement of the digital economy.As/uni00A0 the cornerstone of the digital economy,/uni00A0
ZTE has been committed to innovating its 
foundational capabilities./uni00A0Through continuous 
iterations of architectures, algorithms, 
and processes, ZTE has been expanding 
the scope of service scenarios and service 
objects of optical networks, collaborating 
with operators, enterprises and consumers 
to build an environmentally friendly and 
low-consumption industrial ecosystem. Taking 
OTN/uni00A0 as an/uni00A0 example, the 800G pluggable 
transceiver module with higher integration 
reduces power consumption per Gbit by 68%, 
eﬀectively assisting customers in building 
high-performance next-generation optical 
networks. /uni00A0
Moving forward, ZTE is eager to collaborate 
with global partners to expand network 
coverage through end-to-end all-optical 
networks and accomplish comprehensive 
digital transformation, ensuring equitable 
access. Leveraging ultimate network 
capabilities, ZTE aims to bridge experience 
gaps and boundaries, enabling a broader 
range of scenario experiences. Together 
with global partners, ZTE strives to create 
a ubiquitous, ultimate, green, and eﬃcient 
all-optical era.
Hu Junjie delivering a keynote speechHu Junjie delivering a keynote speech
 41 DEC 2023