Timeslot 1 Timeslot 2 Timeslot 3 Timeslot N
Online education Cloud VR Dedicated line HSI 1…HSI  K…HSI NFrame 2 Frame 1 Frame J Frame M Timeslot
schedulingONU OLTTimeslot scheduling at OLT PON port
Fig. 2. Fixed time slot 
allocation mechanism.
based on time-slot scheduling and can 
achieve /f_ixed slots, /f_ixed bandwidth, 
and /f_ixed latency (Fig. 2). This ensures 
that the end-to-end latency for traﬃc 
/f_lowing through the PON system 
remains constant and deterministic. 
On the software side, the system can 
timestamp deterministic traﬃc at the 
entry. At the exit, in addition to the 
regular /f_irst in /f_irst out (FIFO) queues for 
QoS scheduling, a separate scheduling 
queue is in place for each deterministic 
traﬃc /f_low. According to the timestamp 
and /f_ixed latency of a deterministic 
traﬃc /f_low recorded at the entry, 
priority scheduling is performed to 
ensure precise end-to-end latency 
control for packets as they traverse the 
PON system.
Openness:  ZXA10 C600E uses an 
open network architecture and 
supports the standard NetConf/YANG 
protocols, enabling it to be managed 
by third-party element management 
systems (EMSs) or software-de/f_ined 
networking (SDN) controllers and 
to be orchestrated by third-party 
orchestrators. It enables telemetry with 
performance statistics and analysis 
produced in seconds. With its built-in 
blade servers, ZXA10 C600E supports 
 
third-party applications, thereby 
creating an open and decoupled 
network architecture.
Energy eﬃciency:  ZXA10 C600E 
employs four levels of energy-saving 
measures—at the equipment, service 
card, port, and chip levels—to construct 
a sustainable FTTx network. These 
measures involve supporting multiple 
generations of PONs in the same device, 
dynamic energy reduction for service 
cards and fans, and shutdown or idling 
of service cards and ports as needed. 
Future port traﬃc can also be adjusted 
based on network traﬃc predictions at 
PON ports to lower energy usage. These 
measures collectively reduce power 
consumption and carbon emissions 
of ZXA10 C600E, contributing to the 
development of an eco-friendly FTTx 
network.
As a next-generation all-optical access 
platform, ZXA10 C600E boasts enhanced 
functionalities and superior performance 
compared to ZXA10 C600. Positioned to 
meet the future demands of optical access 
network deployment and technological 
evolution, ZXA10 C600E is poised to become 
the primary optical access platform for the 
50G PON era.
 
 
 DEC 2023
13 