ensure precise network deployment, 
accurate user coverage, and ultimately 
safeguard investments. 
Promoting Large-Scale FTTH 
Development to Create Digital Future 
in Indonesia
At present, Link Net has built a FTTH 
network with over 3 million home passed, 
covering 27 cities across the country. The 
construction of all-optical broadband 
infrastructure has also provided Link Net with 
a higher competitive edge in the market, 
facilitating the growth of new services. By 
employing leading and innovative high-end 
products on a long term, Link Net has 
achieved a high ARPU of over IDR340,000 
and a /f_ixed broadband package bundling 
rate of more than 95%. By the end of 2022, 
its enterprise business revenue had grown 
by 16.4% year-over-year. In the future, it aims 
to become an infrastructure provider with 
the goal of 8 million FTTH home passed 
in the next /f_ive years, oﬀering all-optical 
access network services to more enterprise 
and home users. After the FTTH network 
is delivered quickly on a large scale, Link 
Net will oﬀer faster and more stable /f_ixed 
broadband network connections for 
Indonesian /f_ixed-line users, along with a 
wider range of innovative digital services, 
ensuring that every household can fully 
enjoy the convenience and opportunities of 
the digital era.
 
 
lengths ranging from 50 meters to 1000 
meters, allowing for /f_lexibe adaptation to the 
existing network infrastructure. Moreover, 
the pre-connectorized optical cables are 
lightweight with fewer /f_iber cores, enabling 
installation by just two on-site personnel. 
This has led to a reduction of approximately 
40% in the construction timeline of Link 
Net’s FTTH network. 
Visible and manageable optical network: 
The Light up ODN functional module is 
added to the ODN device, where each 
Light ODN device has a unique QR code 
or pre-connectorized cable barcode. With 
the customized Light up app on a mobile 
phone, the user can easily scan and record 
the serial number and port information. At 
the same time, using AI cameras to identify 
ODN port usage and automatically upload 
the data to the network management 
platform. The platform, which integrates 
a GIS system, displays the  ODN topology, 
signi/f_icantly reducing the workload for the 
Link Net O&M team. This achieves a a visual 
and manageable ODN network, leading to 
a reduction of approximately 30% in O&M 
costs for Link Net, with an operational cost 
reduction of $0.20 per ODN port per year. 
Precise deployment for investment 
protection:  The deployment ratio of 
distributed sites, especially in base station 
areas, rural suburbs, and phased HFV 
transformation areas, can be increased. 
Link Net selects the deployment of 
small-capacity Light PON solutions to 
 
 
 
 
 DEC 2023
 39