cells. In September 2023, China Telecom 
Guangdong and ZTE jointly launched 
China's /f_irst/uni00A0 10G-to-the-enterprise 
application with 50G PON technology at 
the Nanshan Science and Technology Park 
in Shenzhen. 
For home networks, 50G PON+FTTR 
can provide ultra-high bandwidth, 
accommodating various services such 
as smart home, online education, online 
games, VR, and online live streaming. The 
high bandwidth, low latency, and low 
jitter features of 50G PON also support 
mobile backhaul and indoor coverage 
requirements.
ZTE will continue to work with operators 
to verify the technical feasibility and 
equipment maturity of 50G PON in 
diﬀerent application scenarios while 
exploring more application scenarios. 
Smooth 50G PON Upgrade Protects 
Investment
In terms of network evolution, ZTE 
recommends the Combo PON concept for 
a smooth migration from existing PON 
to 50G PON. This concept enables GPON, 
XG(S)-PON, and 50G PON to coexist on a 
single platform and line card, tripling the 
equipment life cycle and saving network 
construction investments.
With the addition of a third uplink 
wavelength band (1284–1288 nm) to the 
50G PON standard at the beginning of 
2023, 50G PON does not need to reuse the 
existing GPON and XGS-PON wavelengths, 
laying the foundation for the coexistence 
of 50G PON, 10G PON, and GPON ONUs on 
the same network. 
ZTE took the industry lead by releasing 
the 50G PON & 10G PON & GPON 
three-mode Combo PON solution (Fig. 1)
at MWC 2023, and ZTE is also the /f_irst 
vendor to apply the Combo concept to 
the upgrade from 10G PON to 50G PON. 
This solution, featuring an independent 
sensitive to latency and jitter. 
To meet the requirements of 
deterministic campus networks, ZTE has 
introduced industry’s /f_irst precise 50G PON 
technology at MWC 2022.
Currently, the 50G PON standards 
are almost complete and in the /f_inal 
preparation stage for commercial use. 
The focus of 50G PON has been shifted 
from standard formulation to commercial 
deployment. ZTE has carried out 50G PON 
demonstrations, tests, and pilots with more 
than 30 operators, continuously promoting 
cooperation and maturity of the industry 
chain in this /f_ield. 
50G PON Covers Diverse Application 
Scenarios
As the next-generation optical /f_iber 
access technology, 50G PON is expected to 
be commercially available by 2025, starting 
with ToB scenarios and expanding to ToH 
scenarios.
50G PON oﬀers uplink and downlink 
symmetric 50 Gbps bandwidth, meeting 
the high-bandwidth service requirements 
of enterprises and enabling symmetric 
10G LAN applications. On the one hand, 
50G PON+FTTR-B can meet the application 
requirements of small and medium-sized 
enterprises (SMEs), such as hotels, street 
stores, and cafes, ensuring a good user 
experience. On the other hand, 50G PON 
can implement 10G all-optical access for 
campuses and enterprises, meeting the 
deterministic requirements for latency and 
jitter in scenarios such as development 
zones, industrial parks, and factories. 
In September 2022, China Mobile and 
ZTE successfully completed the 50G PON 
backhaul /f_ield trial with 5G small cells in its 
existing network, con/f_irming that the 50G 
PON equipment, integrated with the latest 
optoelectronic devices, can precisely 
carry and guarantee high bandwidth 
and low latency services of 5G small 
 
 
 
 
 DEC 2023
 29