this issue by creating an intelligent user 
perception evaluation model that leverages a 
neural network algorithm based on 
transformer structure. It comprehensively 
considers data such as access network link 
status, home networking status, and service 
experience indicators. Additionally, it takes 
into account the temporal aspect of human 
experience memory by employing long 
short-term memory (LSTM) neural network 
training. This results in the generation of 
customer experience indicators (CEI) for 
quantifying user experience, providing a 
comprehensive re/f_lection of user experience 
change trends, and actively identifying low 
QoE users. The system enables real-time 
monitoring of CEIs by areas, devices, ports, 
and users, and supports 7×24-hour KQI 
metrics and user access traceability, helping 
operators gain clear insights into user 
experience.
Faster Location of Low QoE Root 
Cause
ZTE’s CEM solution uses OLT built-in blade 
boards to move the service protocol analysis 
tool closer to the user side. It calculates the 
segment service delay in the FTTx network to 
provide a low QoE delimitation capability. By 
analyzing the delays and packet losses in the 
segments of the “home network – ONU – 
OLT – BRAS – content source” path, it can 
more accurately identify issues between the network segments and facilitate fault 
delimitation. The CEM system can 
interconnect with third-party systems, such 
as EMS, resource management system, and 
remote management system. It can precisely 
locate low QoE users and analyze the root 
causes based on system data, covering over 
20 low QoE scenarios. According to China 
Mobile’s existing network deployment 
experience, the adoption of ZTE’s CEM 
solution enables China Mobile to shorten the 
time needed to locate the root causes of low 
QoE from over four hours per user to just 10 
minutes, thus substantially improving its 
eﬃciency in identifying the root causes of 
low QoE.
As the growth rate of broadband user 
base slows down, operators need to explore 
new network operational methods. In the 
future, broadband operational strategies will 
gradually change from scale-based and 
bandwidth-focused operations to 
experience-centric management, which has 
become a widely accepted trend. Prioritizing 
user experience, delivering scenario-based 
SLA guarantees to a vast user base, creating 
deterministic broadband experiences, and 
securing additional premiums will be the 
objectives of operators. ZTE is willing to 
partner with operators worldwide in 
building high-quality experience-driven 
FTTx networks, assisting in their 
transformation.
Switch fabric
PON  card
Uplink  cardAdvanced architecture General speci/f_ications
Physical parameters Extended interfaces
Built-in bladeDimensions: 393.1 mm × 214 mm × 23.9 mm
Weight: 2.06 kg2 × SSD slot
1 × AI card
Mirror the traﬃc
Identify the service
Calculate the indexNo additional room 
space required
No service interruptionsIn-house 
chip SSD  In-house 
CPU MEM
Fig. 2. OLT built-in blade.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DEC 2023
 33