parameters and connection quality, and 
visualization of service links using diﬀerent 
colors to indicate real-time service 
connection status. Additionally, it provides 
visualization of ODN where data is 
automatically uploaded after the QR 
scanning based on the pre-connectorized 
solution. The dumb /f_iber resources are 
displayed on the map with 100% accuracy 
to depict the entire network topology. 
E2E precise and fast fault location: 
Real-time E2E fault diagnosis and accurate 
fault locating are crucial. The ZENIC ONE 
2.0 system implements intelligent E2E fault 
diagnosis on all the paths. When a video is 
lagging or frozen, it /f_irst creates a network 
topology pro/f_ile and identi/f_ies the 
topology lines level by level to determine 
the termination node of the fault. It then 
checks the device status and alarm 
information of the faulty topology node to 
quickly identify the cause of the user 
service fault and restores the fault 
according to the actual cause. 
E2E accurate discovery of low QoE users 
for timely improvement:  The ZENIC ONE 
2.0 system actively identi/f_ies low QoE 
users, and pinpoints the root causes. It 
makes a comprehensive analysis of videos, 
web pages, games, emails, instant 
messages, and upload/download services, 
performs E2E diagnosis for low QoE users, 
and quickly identi/f_ies and locates the root 
causes. At present, the system achieves an 85% accuracy rate of identifying low QoE 
user and reduces the time for locating root 
causes to 10 minutes.
In the case of China Mobile Yili, the system 
helped the operator reduce the user 
complaint rate from 2.5% to 0.41%, improving 
the user satisfaction, and reduce the low QoE 
root cause locating time, improving the O&M 
eﬃciency. 
E2E Analysis for Faster Optimization
PON Optimization
For PON networks, the ZENIC ONE 2.0 
system supports second-level data collection, 
ensuring a more accurate re/f_lection of 
network details. The platform guides the 
uplink port expansion by analyzing the peak 
bandwidth on the uplink port and facilitates 
PON port upgrades by analyzing the traﬃc on 
the PON port. Furthermore, the system can 
identify high-value users to proactively 
recommend value-added service packages by 
analyzing the uplink port traﬃc of users.
Home Network Optimization
Optimizing the home network can directly 
and eﬀectively improve user satisfaction. In 
densely populated areas, after the initial 
installation of a batch of devices, the system 
can perform periodic and continuous channel 
optimization to reduce Wi-Fi channel 
interference. Using the home channel tuning 
 Fig. 1. ZTE’s ZENIC 
ONE 2.0 end-to-end 
management system.
 
 
 
 
 OLTContent sourceBRAS CRBackbone
ONU WiFiSTBPC
ODF OCC ODB
EducationeSportsVRVideoZENIC ONE
A-SA cardUser services
CEI based on experience
Service E2E analysis
Low QoE user discoveryHome network
Home network topology
Wi-Fi remote optimizing
ONT/Router/STB performanceODN link
Visible ODN
Low optical power analysis
Optical module pre-warningOLT device
Basic management
Traﬃc forecast
Fault intelligent diagnosisContent source
Low QoE content source 
discovery and analysis
 DEC 2023
 19