experience-oriented O&M service support. A 
built-in blade board is inserted in PON OLT to 
minimize equipment room space, resolve 
power supply and consumption issues, and 
enhance the edge computing capability on 
OLT. The service traﬃc of broadband users is 
forwarded to the built-in blade board 
through the OLT. The built-in blade board 
identi/f_ies the speci/f_ic service type of the user, 
extracts key service quality indicators, and 
calculates the segment delay to facilitate the 
delimitation of low QoE issues. 
After identifying services and /f_inishing the 
initial processing of basic indicators, the 
board uploads the processed data to the CEM 
big data analysis platform. The CEM platform 
makes comprehensive analysis and 
calculations based on the raw data and 
third-party system interconnection data. It 
gives quantitative presentation of user 
experience, performs low QoE identi/f_ication, 
root cause delimitation, and generates AI 
user pro/f_iles. This helps operators improve 
user experience and implement precise 
marketing strategies.
CEM Enables Wider Broadband 
Service Identi/f_ication
In the CEM solution, PON OLT needs powerful computing capabilities to support 
the collection, analysis, and processing of 
service information. An OLT built-in blade 
board acts as a tool for collecting broadband 
service data. The new-generation OLT built-in 
blade board uses ZTE’s self-developed CPU 
and network processor, occupying only one 
slot of PON OLT (Fig. 2). The system can 
identify six major categories of broadband 
services, including video, gaming, web 
browsing, email, upload/download, and 
instant messaging. For each service type, the 
system selects the KQIs that aﬀect the service 
for data collection and analysis as the basis of 
user experience quanti/f_ication. ZTE’s CEM 
system can identify more than 18,000 service 
sources. A single built-in blade board can 
collect, analyze, and process service traﬃc 
from multiple OLTs, serving around 10,000 
users. This built-in blade not only enhances 
the value-added service processing 
capabilities of OLTs, but also ensures low 
energy consumption and no additional space 
required in the equipment room, thereby 
reducing operational expenses (OPEX).
Clearer Insight into Low QoE Users
Quantifying user experience has been 
challenging due to its subjectivity and 
abstraction. ZTE’s CEM solution addresses 
Switch fabric
PON  card
Uplink  card 
 
Fig. 1. Architecture of the 
CEM solution.
EMS
Resource management systemMulti-system data
BRAS-source: T7
Backbone network
Customer side: T2 Network side: T3
End-to-end service RTT: T1In-home: T6 ONT-OLT: T4 OLT-BRAS: T5 Content source
BRAS OLTONT STBCR
CEM platform
Built-in bladeService KQI (.xdr /f_ile)
SCPQuantify user experience by CEI
Analyze low QoE users
Analyze poor quality content sources
Root cause delimitation and location
Multi-dimentional AI user pro/f_iles
Built-in blade (A-SA card)CEM platform Big data AI
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turbocharging FTTx Network Special Topic 
32 