ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHAO Yaqiong , KE Hongqin , XU Wei , YE Xinquan , CHEN Yijian RIS -Assisted Cell Free MIMO : A Survey    Review
repeated in the next coherent timescale until the end of data 
transmission . Once the RIS -UE association is fixed , the joint 
optimization problem is decoupled into two sub -problems 
through Lagrangian dual reformulation and multidimensional 
complex quadratic transform . The two decoupled sub -
problems , i.e., the active transmit precoding at the APs and 
the passive reflection precoding at the RISs , are converted to 
two quadratically constrained quadratic program problems 
again , which can be solved by existing optimization tools . By 
iteratively optimizing the two sub -problems alternatively until 
converge , a sub -optimal solution to the weighted spectral effi ⁃
ciency of the system is obtained .
The authors in Ref . [39] also considered the burden on the 
fronthaul network , and proposed a decentralized cooperative 
joint active and passive precoding framework for RIS -assisted 
CF MIMO systems based on the alternating direction method 
of multipliers to maximize the weighted downlink spectral effi ⁃
ciency . Since only a few variables are incrementally updated 
and transmitted to the next AP , the backhaul overhead can be 
significantly reduced compared to the case with the whole CSI 
exchange among APs .
4 Applications of RIS -Assisted Cell -Free 
MIMO
This section presents various novel applications of the RIS -
assisted CF MIMO technique , e.g., physical layer security 
(PLS), unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV ) networks , and wireless 
energy transmission (WET ), as depicted in Fig . 4. In fact , inte⁃
grating RIS and CF MIMO with these emerging technologies 
can offer opportunities for beyond 5G networks . In particular , 
we provide an overview of state -of-the-art contributions on in ⁃
tegrating each technology with RIS -assisted CF MIMO to pin ⁃point the main techniques that can be adopted for developing 
future wireless network services and novel applications in the 
following section .
4.1 Physical Layer Security
With the development of wireless communication and the 
internet of everything (IoE), handheld devices such as mobile 
phones have carried more and more important/private informa ⁃
tion such as identity information , credit card passwords , 
ehealth data , and chat history . However , these devices are 
more vulnerable to security threats or attacks due to their lim ⁃
ited memory capacity , battery life , computational power , and 
network bandwidth . Hence , physical layer security has be ⁃
come one of the top concerns of future wireless communica ⁃
tion systems , especially for CF MIMO systems .
RIS -assisted secure issues have gained great attention re ⁃
cently and a large number of works have shown that by deploy ⁃
ing RISs in the vicinity of the user and the eavesdropper , the 
physical layer security of the CF MIMO systems can be im ⁃
proved . Specifically , in Ref . [38], the maximum weight sum se ⁃
crecy rate problem is considered by jointly optimizing the ac ⁃
tive cooperating precodings at multiple APs and the passive 
cooperating precodings at multiple RISs . The non -convex 
problem is decomposed into two separate sub -problems , and 
each sub -problem is solved by semi -definite relaxation and 
successive convex approximation techniques . With the aim of 
reducing channel estimation and feedback overhead , the au ⁃
thors further proposed a two -timescale transmission , where 
only partial CSI of the corresponding RISs that are selected by 
the assigning scheme is needed in each small coherence time , 
and the whole CSI is needed only at the beginning of the large 
coherence time .
Similarly , the work in Ref . [40] also studied the role of RISs 
in CF MIMO secure issues in the presence of active eaves ⁃
droppers . Channel estimation errors caused by pilot contami ⁃
nation , spoofing attacks and reuse are considered . To manage 
the inter -user interference , ZF precoding is applied to the 
CPU. Then by iteratively optimizing the RIS phase shifts and 
the downlink power allocation , the information leakage to ac ⁃
tive eavesdroppers is minimized while the legitimate user ’s 
performance is guaranteed .
4.2 Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
Due to their immense potential in logistics transportation , 
agricultural cultivation , delivery of medical supplies and tele ⁃
communications , UAVs have been recommended as a key en ⁃
abling technology in both commercial and civilian fields . Spe⁃
cifically , a UAV acts as a flying AP that can dynamically 
change its location to enhance the network coverage and thus 
improve the network capacity . Since there are fewer obstacles 
in the airspace , it is easier to establish an air LoS link by de ⁃
ploying UAVs rather than a ground LoS link by deploying APs .
In traditional CF MIMO systems , a UAV usually serves as 
 ▲Figure 4. Applications of RIS -assisted CF MIMOCF: cell -free 
MIMO : multiple -input multiple -output 
PLS: physical layer security RIS: reconfigurable intelligent surface 
UAV : unmanned aerial vehicle 
WET : wireless energy transmissionRIS -assisted
CF MIMOUAVPLS
WET
81