ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1YANG Yibing , LIU Ming , XU Rongtao , WANG Gongpu , GONG Wei Special Topic   Link Budget and Enhanced Communication Distance for Ambient Internet of Things
incident on the tag . A=λ2Gtag
4π is the effective area of the tag 
antenna .
The power of the modulated tag signal received by reader 
antennas can be written in terms of differential EIRP as
Pr=∆EIRPGβLp(dup)=PtagGtagKGβLp(dup)=
PtG2Gtag2β2Lp(ddown)Lp(dup)α|Γ1-Γ2|2
, (9)
where ddown is the downlink communication distance . It can be 
observed that the signal received by the reader undergoes path 
loss in both the uplink and downlink . Based on the analysis of 
the sensitivity and received power at readers and tags , respec ⁃
tively , which is conducted in the next section , it can be seen 
that the limiting bottleneck for the communication distance of 
MBCS is the downlink communication distance .
4 Downlink Improvement of Tag
4.1 Tag Chip Sensitivity
In downlink communications , the tag receives and extracts 
the signaling indication information of RF signals sent from 
the reader , and sets the corresponding reflection mode . How ⁃
ever, signal decoding and information extraction from RF sig ⁃
nals can be implemented by an analog -to-digital converter 
(ADC ), as in traditional wireless systems . However , it con ⁃
sumes a significant amount of power and therefore is not suit ⁃
able for ultra -low power systems . In a signal reception module 
of the tag , a threshold comparison circuit with lower power 
consumption is used to achieve frequency down -conversion .
The tag chip sensitivity is also known as the activation 
threshold , indicating the minimum power of signaling that 
can be recognized by the tag ’s logic processing unit and 
used to perform impedance modulation . Depending on the 
tag’s reception processing , factors affecting sensitivity may 
be the forward voltage drop of the diode , the sensitivity of the 
comparator , and the algorithm limit imposed by the adopted 
decoding scheme .
More specifically , if the input signal is lower than the 
level of forward voltage drop , the received signal cannot be 
demodulated and no output will be generated . Similarly , 
when the input signal is too weak , the signal amplitudes that 
represent different information states are very close to each 
other . Especially , when the difference is lower than the mini ⁃
mum difference that can be detected by the comparator (i.e. 
the sensitivity of the comparator ), the comparator cannot out ⁃
put reliable results for the following processing . In addition , 
the decoding algorithm employed by the tag may also have 
certain performance upper bound , beyond which the decod ⁃
ing algorithm cannot constantly provide correct output infor ⁃
mation . This performance upper bound is usually associated 
with the signal quality .We measure the chip sensitivity of the tag with the follow ⁃
ing experiments . As shown in Fig . 3, we use universal software 
radio peripheral (USRP ) to transmit a carrier signal and signal ⁃
ing with certain power , through an attenuation connected to 
the tag , and connect the comparator output of the tag to an os ⁃
cilloscope . The operating frequency is 925 MHz , and the mea ⁃
surement steps are as follows . Firstly , we measure the thresh ⁃
old power Pth at the tag antenna when the comparator has a 
stable waveform output corresponding to the signaling . That 
is, the tag correctly decodes the signaling and initiates reflec ⁃
tion. Fig. 4 shows the comparator ’s output waveform mea ⁃
sured by the oscilloscope at Pth=-19.90 dBm , matching the 
signaling from the reader . Due to an increase in the attenua ⁃
tion value of the attenuator , the comparator waveforms no lon ⁃
ger match . The threshold power Pth is called the tag sensitiv ⁃
ity. Secondly , the reflection coefficient |Γ|=0.138 4 of im ⁃
pedance matching is measured by using a vector network ana ⁃
lyzer (VNA ) at the Pth power level . The tag chip sensitivity 
Pchip,  sen=-19.98 dBm .
4.2 Communication Distance Upper Bound
In MBCS , when Lp(dM)=(λ
4πdM)2, the upper bound of the 
downlink distance can be determined by :
▲Figure 3. Sensitivity measurement experiment
▲Figure 4. Output waveform of the comparatorPCUniversal software ra ⁃
dio peripheral
Oscilloscope
Backscatter tagAttenuator
20