ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1CAO Xinghan , YIN Huarui , YOU Changsheng Near -Field Wireless Power Transfer , Sensing and Communication with Bessel Beams    Special Topic
wave and millimeter -wave frequency bands .
4.2 Sensing
Thanks to their extended axial length and invariant lateral 
resolution , along with their excellent focusing performance , Bes⁃
sel beams have a wide range of applications in various fields , in⁃
cluding medical imaging , terahertz imaging , and ground -
penetrating radars (GPRs ). In 1990 , a study compared the main 
lobe characteristics of Bessel beams with those of Gaussian 
beams[38]. The lateral resolution of Bessel beams was provided in 
closed form . The study designed a broadband non -diffracting 
Bessel beamtransducer , which can enhance imaging frame 
rates, resulting in clearer and sharper medical ultrasound im ⁃
ages due to its long focal depth (>200 mm ). The potential of 
these non -diffracting beams in the field of medical imaging is 
tremendous . In Refs . [39] and [40], higher resolution and more 
information were achieved by utilizing Bessel beams instead of 
Gaussian beams in endoscopic imaging and cellular imaging 
scenarios , respectively . In Ref . [41], focused Bessel beams were 
employed in biomedical analysis , effectively achieving 
pathology -based measurements . To mitigate the impact of Bes ⁃
sel beam side lobes on imaging , a method called complementary 
beam subtraction (CBS) was proposed in Ref . [42], where a 
complementary beam is constructed for the Bessel beam . By 
scanning both the Bessel beam and its complementary beam 
and subtracting the two images , high axial resolution images can 
be restored . The imaging performance was experimentally vali ⁃
dated using a spatial light modulator .
Moreover , Bessel beams can be used to overcome the trade -
off between lateral resolution and depth of focus in traditional 
terahertz imaging , showing excellent potential for terahertz pen ⁃
etration imaging . A study conducted in Ref . [43] explored the 
possibility of manufacturing Bessel beam generation compo ⁃
nents for terahertz imaging applications through 3D printing 
technology . Additionally , regarding the penetration capability of 
Bessel beams , their propagation properties after passing through 
absorbing layers were studied in Ref . [44], which provides pre ⁃
liminary exploration for their potential applications in GPRs[29]. 
In the near -field range , the acoustic version of Bessel beams 
was used to achieve microphone localization through beam scan ⁃
ning[45]. However , to the best of our knowledge , research on lo ⁃
calization using Bessel beams is currently quite limited .
4.3 Communication
Current research on Bessel beams in the field of communica ⁃
tion mainly focuses on optics and terahertz domains . Free -space 
optical (FSO) communication , as a powerful complement to ex ⁃
isting wireless communication technologies , contributes to 
achieving ultra -high -speed wireless communication in many im ⁃
portant applications . In FSO systems , Bessel beams are used for 
interference resistance because of their self -healing characteris ⁃
tics. In 2011 , leveraging the non -diffractive and self -healing 
properties of Bessel beams , GATTO et al . achieved and experi ⁃mentally tested an apparatus for an orbital angular momentum 
(OAM )-multiplexed FSO communication system[46]. In 2016 , re⁃
searchers established a model for the transmission of Bessel -
Gauss (BG) beams with OAM modes , deriving analytical expres ⁃
sions for the channel information capacity of free -space optical 
communication system s[47]. This demonstrated that BG beams 
could effectively mitigate the impact of turbulence on OAM 
mode transmission . In Ref . [48], a practical anti -turbulence free -
space optical communication scheme was proposed for visible 
light communication , based on an easily tunable zero -order Bes ⁃
sel beam . Compared with traditional Gaussian beams , this 
scheme enhances link stability and provides a power compensa ⁃
tion of 2 dB to 3 dB, addressing the turbulence challenges en ⁃
countered in visible light communication . Bessel beams have 
also been found to enhance physical layer security in FSO sys ⁃
tems. The potential of using Bessel -Gauss beams to increase se ⁃
cure capacity and improve channel stability is explored in Refs . 
[49] and [50].
Terahertz communication is considered one of the most prom ⁃
ising breakthrough technologies for the next generation of wire ⁃
less standards . However , it suffers from extremely high propaga ⁃
tion losses , which limits communication distances to the near -
field range . Bessel beams offer a solution for near -field commu ⁃
nication by resisting obstacles and providing a stable communi ⁃
cation link . In Ref . [51], researchers investigated near -field phe ⁃
nomena in THz communication , explored link budget require ⁃
ments , and proposed a promising solution using Bessel beams 
for near -field THz communication . Under experimental condi ⁃
tions for single -carrier near -field sub -THz communications , they 
utilized Bessel beams and a 16-QAM modulation scheme , 
achieving 40 Gbit/s with a bandwidth of 20 GHz . This study was 
further extended in Ref . [52], confirming that Bessel beams , in 
comparison to focused beams , can maintain a higher and more 
stable signal -to-noise ratio over a larger communication range .
4.4 Research Challenges
The research on the application of Bessel beams is still in the 
exploration stage , primarily due to challenges in their genera ⁃
tion and limitations in propagation distance . Relatively , the ap ⁃
plication prospects of Bessel beams in wireless power transfer 
have been explored more extensively . However , for WPT appli ⁃
cations , Bessel beams face an inevitable trade -off: increasing the 
transmission distance requires enlarging the generation aperture , 
which can lead to more sidelobe energy leakage . To enhance 
their transmission distance for practical applications , methods to 
reduce sidelobes must be considered . For instance , the use of 
broad -spectrum Bessel beams (known as X -waves ) can enhance 
transmission efficiency . For the application of Bessel beams in 
sensing , current research is primarily focused on the field of 
medical imaging , with relatively fewer studies in other domains . 
Meanwhile , the application of Bessel beams in communication , 
to counter interference , improve communication stability and en ⁃
hance security , is still in the early stage of exploration . Cur ⁃
59