ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1SHEN Jiayu , YANG Jun , ZHU Chen , DENG Zhiji , HUANG Chongwen Near -Field Beam Training for Holographic MIMO Communications : Typical Methods , Challenges and Future Directions    Special Topic
tions such as in -flight Internet , flight information transmis ⁃
sion, communication and navigation , improving the safety of 
aircraft and the comfort of passengers . LEO satellites can also 
cover marine areas and provide communication services for 
ships at sea . This is of great significance for communication 
between ships , remote monitoring and rescue . LEO satellites 
can make up for the lack of communication infrastructure in 
remote areas and provide people with communication services 
such as telephone , Internet and data transmission . This is also 
important for residents , researchers and rescue teams in re ⁃
mote areas . Communication links between LEO satellites and 
terminals usually face problems such as fading and multipath 
interference[34]. In order to obtain lower delay and larger band ⁃
width , fast beam training is very important to accurately point 
the beam direction of the antenna towards the terminal , thus 
enhancing the signal strength , improving the quality of the re ⁃
ceived and transmitted signals , and further reducing the inter ⁃
ference and improving the spectral efficiency . Meanwhile , 
LEO satellite systems usually have multiple beams and can 
provide services to multiple users at the same time , so the fast 
multi -beam training algorithm has a wide range of application 
prospects here as well .
4 Simulation Results and Testbed
We now use the simulation results to evaluate the perfor ⁃
mance of the typical beam training methods previously pre ⁃
sented in Section 3. It is worth stating that we focus on the 
EMIB and HMB methods because the multi -beam scheme is 
more efficient in terms of beam training overhead . The num ⁃
ber of BSs and the operating frequency are set to K = 5 and 
fc=28 GHz respectively , and the signal wavelength is λc=
0.01 m. The planar antenna array of BS contains Nx=4, Nz=
128 antennas , and the spacing between the antennas is dx=
dz=λc/2. The reference SNR is γ=P0NxNzρ0
r2
0σ2 with ρ0 =
-72 dB, P0=15 dBm, and σ2 = -70 dBm. And the achiev ⁃
able rate in bit ∙s−1∙Hz−1 is given by R=log2(1+
γ|fT
BBFT
RFg1|2).
Fig. 7 plots the effect of SNR on the identification accuracy . 
With the same simulation setup , we use EIMB training with 
the near -field codebook and exhaustive training with the dis ⁃
crete Fourier transform (DFT) codebook (“Exhaustive -DFT”) 
as the baseline . Firstly , it can be seen that with increasing 
SNR, the influence of noise becomes smaller and the identifi ⁃
cation accuracy of all beam training methods gradually in ⁃
creases ; under the exhaustive beam training , the accuracy 
with the near -field codebook converges to 1, while that with 
the far -field codebook is significantly lower , which confirms 
the effectiveness of the designed codebook in near -field condi ⁃
tions . In addition , to compare the performance of different 
beam training methods , the performance of EIMB is quite lower compared with the exhaustive and HMB approaches 
when utilizing near -field codebooks . Moreover , when the SNR 
is relatively low , the identification accuracy is considerably 
improved compared with EIMB training . However , it can be 
noticed that as the number of multi -beams B decreases , the ac ⁃
curacy gradually decreases , since the number of sub -beams R 
increases as B decreases , which makes the leakage interfer ⁃
ence between sub -beams have a greater effect on the identifi ⁃
cation result .
Fig. 8 plots the effect of different codebook sizes on the 
beam training overhead . Beam training overhead is deter ⁃
mined by the size of the space scanned by each beam training 
algorithm . To meet the actual situation without affecting the re ⁃
sults of the situation , increased single search overhead 
weights and other parameters , such as the exhaustive algo ⁃
rithm’s overhead , are proportional to the size of the codebook . 
The exhaustive approach traverses the entire beam space and 
▲Figure 8. Training overhead versus codebook size▲Figure 7. Success beam identification accuracy versus SNRDFT: discrete Fourier transform
EIMB : equal interval multi -beamHMB : hash multi -beam
SNR: signal -to-noise ratio
EIMB : equal interval multi -beam HMB : hash multi -beamSNR/dBBeam identification accuracyHMB , B=16
HMB , B=32
HMB , B=64
EIMB , B=16
EIMB , B=32
EIMB , B=64
Exhuastive
Exhuastive -DFT
-15      - 10       - 5         0          5          10        15        20        25        301
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
Codebook size50  100 150  200 250 300 350 400 450 500Beam training overhead2 500
2 000
1 500
1 000
500
0HMB , B=8
HMB , B=16
HMB , B=32
EIMB , B=8
EIMB , B=16
EIMB , B=32
Exhuastive
49