ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1CAO Xinghan , YIN Huarui , YOU Changsheng Special Topic   Near -Field Wireless Power Transfer , Sensing and Communication with Bessel Beams
ploring their potential applications . In addition , the develop ⁃
ment of mobile communication technologies toward the near -
field region has unlocked more possibilities for the practical ap ⁃
plication of this kind of short -range beams . In this section , we 
will categorize current applications of Bessel beams into three 
classes for discussion : wireless power transfer , sensing , and 
communication , and provide an introduction to the challenges 
that exist in current research in each category .
4.1 Wireless Power Transfer
Wireless power transfer holds promising prospects in the 
near -field range , providing a convenient and efficient means of 
electricity delivery for applications such as sensor networks and 
mobile terminals . The efficiency is one of the most crucial prop ⁃
erties in WPT systems . To enhance transfer efficiency , research ⁃
ers are exploring ways to focus energy at the transmitting end . 
There are many types of beams designed for energy focus , such 
as focusing beams and supergain beams . Among these , Bessel 
beams offer a compromise , providing a solution that does not de ⁃
pend on high -precision positioning but still provides excellent 
focusing performance . Due to their non -diffracting characteris ⁃
tics and excellent directionality , Bessel beams can ensure that 
the emitted energy remains focused without dispersion within an 
effective range along a line . Additionally , Bessel beams have a 
long focal depth , which makes it possible to charge multiple de ⁃
vices simultaneously .
In Ref . [10], a transmissive metasurface unit was designed to 
compare the power transmission performance of Bessel beams 
with focused beams and high -gain directional beams , as shown 
in Fig . 7. The experimental results validated that Bessel beams 
could consistently maintain excellent focusing performance 
within their propagation range , making them an excellent choice 
for short -range wireless power transfer . Additionally , the possi ⁃
bility of simultaneously charging multiple devices using the long 
focal depth , large energy focusing range and self -healing charac ⁃
teristics of Bessel beams was preliminarily explored in this 
study . This work was further expanded in Ref . [22] in the follow ⁃
ing year . The researchers designed a metasurface with high 
transmission coefficient units by controlling and superimposing 
two Bessel beams . They achieved a Bessel beam with a half -
power beam length (HPBL ) exceeding 10%. This design enables 
a uniform energy distribution over a wide range along a single 
line, allowing simultaneous power transfer to multiple receiving 
devices . A WPT system with five receiving targets was designed 
(Fig. 8), and the scenarios under different apertures of receiving 
antennas were discussed . Experimental results demonstrated 
that the receiving targets achieved similar and high WPT effi ⁃
ciency , showcasing the excellent capability of Bessel beams in 
multiple -target energy transfer . In Ref . [35], the aperture field of 
the Bessel beam was modulated by introducing Gaussian func ⁃
tions. The generated Gaussian -Bessel beam was compared with 
the TEM mode of a coaxial cable and the Bessel beam for power 
transmission efficiency between two radiating apertures in the near -field zone . The designed transmitter efficiently transferred 
radiofrequency power over a range of several wavelengths , 
achieving high efficiency (exceeding 50% at 30 wavelengths ). 
The experimental results demonstrated that the Gaussian -Bessel 
beam was the optimal choice in this scenario due to its narrow 
spectrum and reduced diffraction of the radiated beam . In Ref . 
[36], the coupling coefficient between focused apertures support ⁃
ing two types of cylindrical vector beams (Laguerre -Gaussian 
and Bessel -Gaussian ) was derived in closed form . The results 
demonstrated that within the Fresnel zone , a finite aperture Bes ⁃
sel beam closely approaches the optimal field profile , exhibiting 
optimal wireless energy transfer performance . In Ref . [37], two 
coupled transverse magnetic (TM)-polarized , transverse electric 
(TE)-polarized , or hybrid -polarized Bessel beams launchers 
were evaluated and compared for WPT efficiency in the near -
field radiation region . The study demonstrated the excellent per ⁃
formance of Bessel beams for WPT application in the micro ⁃
▲Figure 7. E-field intensity distributions of (a) high -gain directional 
beam , (b) focused beam and (c) Bessel beam[10]
▲Figure 8. Schematic of the multitarget wireless power transfer (WPT ) 
system[22](a)
(b)
(c)E-field/ (V/m)
200
100
0
#n #2#1
Receiving targetsFeedQuasi -Bessel beam …
Metasurface
58