ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LUO Haoran , HU Shuisong , WANG Wenyong , TANG Yuke , ZHOU Junwei Research on Multi -Core Processor Analysis for WCET Estimation   Review
Research on MultiResearch on Multi --Core Processor Core Processor 
Analysis for WCET EstimationAnalysis for WCET Estimation
LUO Haoran1, HU Shuisong1, WANG Wenyong1, 
TANG Yuke2, ZHOU Junwei2
(1. University of Electronic Science and Technology of China , Chengdu 
611731 , China；
 2. ZTE Corporation , Shenzhen 518057 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401010
https ://kns .cnki.net/kcms/detail/ 34.1294 .TN.20240226 .1212 .002, published 
online February 26, 2024
Manuscript received : 2023 -06-21
Abstract : Real -time system timing analysis is crucial for estimating the worst -case execution time (WCET ) of a program . To achieve this , 
static or dynamic analysis methods are used , along with targeted modeling of the actual hardware system . This literature review focuses on cal ⁃
culating WCET for multi -core processors , providing a survey of traditional methods used for static and dynamic analysis and highlighting the 
major challenges that arise from different program execution scenarios on multi -core platforms . This paper outlines the strengths and weak ⁃
nesses of current methodologies and offers insights into prospective areas of research on multi -core analysis . By presenting a comprehensive 
analysis of the current state of research on multi -core processor analysis for WCET estimation , this review aims to serve as a valuable resource 
for researchers and practitioners in the field .
Keywords : real -time system ; worst -case execution time (WCET ); multi -core analysis
Citation  (Format 1): LUO H R , HU S S , WANG W Y , et al . Research on multi -core processor analysis for WCET estimation [J]. ZTE Communi ⁃
cations , 2024 , 22(1): 87–94. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401010
Citation  (Format 2): H. R. Luo, S. S. Hu, W. Y. Wang , et al ., “Research on multi -core processor analysis for WCET estimation ,” ZTE Commu ⁃
nications , vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 87–94, Mar. 2024 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401010 .
1 Introduction
For intelligent devices with real -time embedded systems , 
the safety -critical nature of tasks is of paramount impor ⁃
tance . Programs are required to accomplish tasks 
within stringent time constraints , which not only im ⁃
poses significant demands on the accuracy of program logic , 
but also has a consequential impact on the safety -critical per ⁃
formance of the system . For instance , automotive control sys ⁃
tems must carry out various tasks within specified time limits , 
such as engine control , braking systems , and in -car entertain ⁃
ment . These systems must respond quickly to driver inputs and 
adapt accordingly to road and traffic conditions . Any untimely 
response could potentially lead to serious traffic accidents .
In the design of embedded systems , predictability and reli ⁃
ability are crucial factors that must be taken into account . Spe⁃
cifically , the predictability of timing behavior is of utmost im ⁃
portance . To address this issue , the concept of the worst -case 
execution time (WCET ) is a key point .
WCET refers to the maximum time a program takes to ex ⁃
ecute under the most unfavorable conditions in real -time sys ⁃
tems. Accurately estimating WCET of a task is critical to guar ⁃
antee that the task is completed within its deadline without in ⁃curring any delays . This estimation can be utilized to optimize 
resource allocation and scheduling strategies in the system , 
thereby making sure that tasks are executed within acceptable 
time intervals .
WCET multi -core analysis can help designers evaluate the 
performance of applications in multi -core processor systems 
and provide guidance for scheduling algorithms and resource 
allocation . Through WCET multi -core analysis , application 
performance in multi -core processor systems can be opti ⁃
mized , response time can be reduced , and system reliability 
and efficiency can be improved .
However , due to the increasing application demands and the 
increasingly complex design of systems , higher performance re ⁃
quirements are being placed on system performance , leading to 
more and more desktop processor features being deployed on 
the real -time systems . The diversity of complex processor fea ⁃
tures has made the execution time of instructions in the proces ⁃
sor uncertain , which has led to uncertainty in WCET analysis .
Therefore , the results of WCET analysis require both safety 
and accuracy . The actual execution time of the program 
should not exceed the estimated time , and the analysis results 
should be as close as possible to the actual maximum execu ⁃
tion time of the program , which is referred to as the true value . 
The true value is theoretically existent , and under the current 
research , the requirements for WCET also differ based on the 
This work was supported by ZTE Industry ⁃University ⁃Institute Coopera ⁃
tion Funds under Grant No . 2022 ZTE09.
87