ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHAO Yaqiong , KE Hongqin , XU Wei , YE Xinquan , CHEN Yijian RIS -Assisted Cell Free MIMO : A Survey    Review
assisted cascaded channels . Second , the APs transmit the de ⁃
mand signal received to the CPU . Then , the CPU allocates 
power and transmits a control signal to APs based on the sig ⁃
nal transmitted by APs . Finally , APs transmit wireless energy 
signals to the energy receiver via downlink .
Recently , some works have considered the WET in RIS -
assisted CF MIMO systems and analyzed its opportunities 
and challenges . For example , the authors of Ref . [42] an⁃
swered the question of how the WET technology could be in ⁃
tegrated into RIS -assisted CF MIMO systems from the main 
application scenarios , the four -stage transmission procedure , 
the specific deployment and hardware design , and the opera ⁃
tion modes . The weighted sum rate maximization problem for 
RIS -assisted CF MIMO systems was studied in Ref . [43], un⁃
der the total power constraints , the energy harvesting con ⁃
straints and the unit -modulus constraints of the RISs . In Ref . 
[44], the authors proposed to substitute APs with UAVs to 
construct a CF MIMO -mount UAV assisted by RISs for RF 
energy transfer , which combines the benefits of CF MIMO , 
RISs and UAV . This framework where the distributed UAVs 
act as APs and operate in a cell -free fashion can provide a 
strong LoS signal and thus harvest more energy than other 
benchmarks .
5 Technical Challenges and Future Direc ⁃
tions
Although several aspects of the RIS -assisted CF MIMO 
technique have been discussed in this paper , there are still 
some remaining challenges and unidentified areas in this 
field. In the following , we will point out some of the major 
challenges and future directions for implementing this tech ⁃
nology in future wireless networks to realize its full potential .
5.1 Technical Challenges
To achieve the promised performance gains brought by the 
RIS -assisted CF MIMO technique , exact channel estimation 
is indispensable , which is rather difficult due to the follow ⁃
ing reasons . First , it is challenging to achieve perfect chan ⁃
nel estimation for RISs , if not impossible . Due to their pas ⁃
sive nature , RISs do not have any capability of signal pro ⁃
cessing , which makes it an arduous task to obtain individual 
channels of each hop of the links as in traditional relay sys ⁃
tems . Second , RISs are usually composed of hundreds or 
even thousands of reflecting elements . Consequently , the 
channel coefficients that need to be estimated are tremen ⁃
dous , leading to an unaffordable overhead .
Due to hardware limitations of RIS elements , achieving op ⁃
timal phase shift on all frequencies simultaneously in RIS -
assisted MIMO systems is impractical , resulting in the so -
called beam squint effect[45]. Specifically , the application of a 
large system bandwidth and intelligent reflecting surface 
causes a non -negligible propagation delay of electromagnetic 
waves and thus leads to a frequency -dependent antenna ar ⁃ray response , i.e., beam pointing direction varies with fre ⁃
quency . However , ignoring the beam squint effects can lead 
to severe beam gain loss and seriously degrade system perfor ⁃
mance , especially for RIS -assisted wideband mmWave sys ⁃
tems . Therefore , the impact of beam squint needs to be taken 
into consideration , and effective measures should be imple ⁃
mented to mitigate its impact in RIS -assisted systems .
Another critical technical challenge of the RIS -assisted 
CF MIMO system is low -complexity signal processing . On 
the one hand , to provide better QoS for future networks with 
massive access devices , it is necessary to deploy more APs 
and RISs with numerous antennas and reflecting elements . 
On the other hand , the problem of jointly optimizing the ac ⁃
tive precodings at APs and passive precodings at RISs is al ⁃
ways non -convex due to the unit -modulus constraints of 
RISs , which always comes with a vast number of time -
consuming iterations , leading to high calculation complexity 
and huge time latency . Meanwhile , due to the coupling be ⁃
tween the optimization variables , the problem is hard to 
solve[38]. While many existing researchers have focused on 
and proposed various sub -optimal solutions to this problem , 
considering practical system implementations such as chan ⁃
nel estimation and hardware impairments may make it even 
more sophisticated to solve[37]. Thus , there is an urgent need 
for more low -complexity signal processing techniques .
5.2 Future Directions
Learning -based techniques have attracted increasing at ⁃
tention from both academia and industry due to their ability 
to process a vast number of data in emerging wireless appli ⁃
cations[46]. However , only a few studies have investigated the 
learning -enabled RIS -assisted CF MIMO networks . In fact , 
learning can play an essential role in channel estimation and 
power allocation for RIS -aided systems and CF MIMO sys ⁃
tems . For example , some results have shown that the neural 
network -based estimation method can outperform the tradi ⁃
tional estimation methods even with a few pilots , and the 
deep learning -based resource allocation can approximate the 
globally optimal performance for max -min power control . As 
such , more in -depth studies should be conducted in learning -
enabled RIS systems and CF MIMO systems to fully exploit 
the potential of these techniques .
Near -field communication is an indispensable part of fu ⁃
ture 6G networks , which will bring several challenges to wire ⁃
less communications . The low cost and low power consump ⁃
tion enable RIS to be equipped with a large number of reflec ⁃
tive elements[47]. Meanwhile , increasing the number of anten ⁃
nas in the BS is also an important trend for future communi ⁃
cation systems . However , large -scale RIS panels and large 
antenna arrays in the BS can lead to the near -field effect , es⁃
pecially in RIS -assisted CF MIMO wireless communication 
systems . Most traditional techniques designed for the far 
field suffer severe performance losses in the near -field re ⁃
83