ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LIU Mengyu , ZHANG Yang , JIN Yasheng , ZHI Kangda , PAN Cunhua Special Topic   Towards Near -Field Communications for 6G: Challenges and Opportunities
where Jm(ωu, φu)=mzΔRωu-myΔRφu,and Qm(ωu, φu, d0
u)=
((mzΔR)2+(myΔR)2
-J2
m(ωu,φu))/2d0
u.
Then , the authors carried out the NF -JCEL algorithm by es ⁃
timating the AoAs ωu=sin ϕu,0, φu=sin θu,0 cos ϕu,0, the dis ⁃
tance d0
u, and the cascaded channel attenuation gu,i, and fi ⁃
nally obtained the position of UE u by utilizing the geometric 
relationship . Furthermore , because the steering vectors were 
frequency -dependent , the authors processed the channel esti ⁃
mation on each sub -band .
1) RIS training phase shifts and pilot design
The authors utilized different RIS phase shift vectors to ob ⁃
tain a unique estimation of the channel matrix . The pseudo -
random (PN) sequences were utilized as the transmitting pilot 
at different time slots , which are statistically orthogonal with 
each other , and the RIS phase shift vector changed for S times 
in a pilot data duration . Then the composited signal vector 
which collected the received signals in the S different phase 
shifts could be obtained , and we had a least square (LS) esti⁃
mator of Axt as ------Axt, where A is the channel matrix to be esti ⁃
mated , and xt is the pilot sequence in the t-th time slot .
Note that the rank of the cascaded channel moves up by 
employing diverse phase shifts of the RIS to avoid noise am ⁃
plification when utilizing the LS estimation . Since the chan ⁃
nel coefficients are unknown , the existing RIS phase designs 
such as the random phase shift and the Discrete Fourier 
Transform (DFT) matrix are considered . By collecting the re ⁃
ceived signal in the τ pilot durations , the covariance matrix 
of the received signal is estimated as the mean covariance 
matrix of ------Axt.
2) Estimation of AoAs
The authors provided a novel method to separate the dis ⁃
tance and AoAs in the covariance matrix . With complicated 
mathematical manipulations , they constructed a down -
sampled Toeplitz matrix T to decouple the distance and the 
AoAs . Therefore , the far -field angle estimation methods could 
be obtained with the sampled correlation matrix .
Specifically , the authors applied a computationally efficient 
subspace -based method to estimate the angles . By leveraging 
the key idea of the MUSIC algorithm , the AoAs could be esti ⁃
mated by minimizing the following cost function :
f(ω, φ)=bH(ω, φ)Πmb(ω, φ), (24)
where b(ω,φ)=v(ω)⊗s(φ), v(ω)[]z=exp(-j4π
λzΔRω), s(φ)[]y=
exp(-j4π
λyΔRφ), and Πm is designed by utilizing the property 
of the sampled correlation matrix T.
By applying the Lagrangian multiplier method , the rela ⁃
tionship between each optimal ωu and φu is obtained . Then , 
substitute the equation into the objective function and the op ⁃timal value of ω can be reached by solving a one -
dimensional problem . Since ωu=sinϕu, we can search in the 
interval of ωu∈[-1,1] and obtain the U largest peaks as the 
estimator of ωu. Finally , by utilizing the relationship between 
ωu and φu, we have U vectors ŝ(φu) corresponding to ω̂u, and 
the estimator of φu is obtained by applying the LS estimation .
3) Estimation of distances , channel gains and locations
Similar to the method of tackling ω and φ, the authors trans ⁃
form the estimation of distance into the following problem .
d0
u∗=argmind0
u((diag{pu}qu)H
Πn(diag{pu}qu)),(25)
where pu=é
ëêêêêexp(-j2π
λJ-N0),⋯, exp(-j2π
λJN0)ù
ûúúúúT
, qu=
é
ëê
êêêexp(-jπQ-N0
λd0
u),⋯, exp(-jπQN0
λd0
u)ù
ûú
úúú
 , and Πn is designed 
in the similar way as Πm. By conducting one -dimensional 
search , the U largest peaks of the searching results are ob ⁃
tained as the estimated distances .
Finally , the LS method can be applied to estimate the chan ⁃
nel gain of sub -band i, and the localization of UE u can be ob ⁃
tained according to the geometric relationship with the estima ⁃
tion over different frequency bands .
4) Simulation results
Simulation results validate the advantages of the NF -
JCEL algorithm over its far -field counterpart in the near -
field scenario . As shown in Fig. 8(a), the NF -JCEL algo ⁃
rithm outperforms the corresponding far -field cases in the 
root mean square error (RMSE ) of UE locations . In addition , 
along with the increase of elements , the NF -JCEL algorithm 
obtains better performance while the conventional far -field 
model suffers severe degradation . When it comes to the 
RMSE performance of the estimated channel coefficients , 
similar trends in the sum RMSE can be observed in Figs . 8
(b) and 8(c).
This phenomenon is owing to the fact that more elements 
can provide more angular information , thus leading to higher 
angular resolution when estimating the AoAs . In contrast , the 
conventional far -field model neglects the distinction of AoAs 
at the RIS , so that the approximation error of the planar wave ⁃
front becomes more severe though the correlation matrices of 
larger dimensions are exploited .
3.3 Transmission Scheme Design for Near -Field Commu ⁃
nications
3.3.1 Challenges
As the antenna array size increases , the Rayleigh distance 
significantly extends from a few meters to tens or hundreds of 
meters[17]. Consequently , the plane wave assumption in the far 
field becomes invalid . Based on the spherical wave character ⁃
10