ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHAO Yaqiong , KE Hongqin , XU Wei , YE Xinquan , CHEN Yijian Review   RIS -Assisted Cell Free MIMO : A Survey
gion, such as channel estimation and beamforming[48]. Thus , 
it is practically important to efficiently adapt these tradi ⁃
tional techniques to the near -field domain in IRS -aided CF 
MIMO systems and explore the possibilities of improving ca ⁃
pacity by exploiting the near -field spherical wavefront .
Another emerging feature of 6G networks is the integration 
of sensing and communications , which enables the exploita ⁃
tion of dense sensing objects , computing resources and com ⁃
plicated communication resources to construct a perceptive 
network[49]. In CF MIMO systems , distributed array antennas 
can be used to significantly increase the effective array aper ⁃
ture, thus improving the sensing accuracy . Moreover , the po ⁃
sition , speed and other information obtained from integrated 
sensing and communication can be utilized to optimize trans ⁃
mission performance and simplify computation complexity in 
CF MIMO systems . Therefore , the integrated design of com ⁃
munication and sensing based on CF MIMO systems is a po ⁃
tential technology for the exponentially growing demands 
and application requirements of 6G.
Most existing research has focused on CF MIMO sys ⁃
tems with low -mobility users moving at a velocity of less 
than 10 km/h. However , in practical implementations with a 
large number of distributed users , there exist some users 
with high movement rates , although few , but vital . This is be ⁃
cause in high mobility scenarios , the combination effect of 
Doppler frequency offset , timing offset and phase noise may 
trigger the inter -carrier interference and therefore deteriorate 
the system performance . Therefore , it is crucial to consider 
transmit precoding and power allocation algorithms under 
high vehicular speeds .
Besides , hardware constraints and imperfections are also 
an interesting topic that needs to be investigated . In the ini ⁃
tial research on RIS -assisted CF MIMO wireless communica ⁃
tion systems , most works have mainly assumed the ideal RIS 
reflection model for the ease of communication optimization 
design and performance analysis . However , in practice , RISs 
always suffer from hardware imperfections/impairments such 
as limited precision of reflection and phase -dependent ampli ⁃
tude that could seriously decrease the system performance . 
Hence , it is necessary to build a hardware -constrained sys ⁃
tem model that can accurately capture the hardware imper ⁃
fections of RISs to cater to practical use .
The association between APs , users and RISs is also a dif ⁃
ficult task that remains to be solved . Prior research has been 
conducted in a scenario where all APs jointly transmit their 
signals to all users through all RISs . This is however both 
power - and performance -inefficient since only the users near 
APs and RISs can benefit from the predesigned transmit pre ⁃
coding . A more practical and efficient way is to dynamically 
allocate a group of RISs and APs that have the best channel 
conditions to serve each individual user , and this kind of 
matching schemes has been verified to have better perfor ⁃
mance compared with the all -AP scheme . This AP -RIS -UE matching approach is still in its fancy and needs to be inves ⁃
tigated especially when considering passive RISs .
Finally , the space -air-ground -sea integrated networks 
(SAGSIN ) is a network architecture for 6G, which has been 
widely envisioned as a promising solution to complete , multi -
angle and high -speed communication coverage worldwide[50]. 
SAGSIN is divided into four segments : the space network , air 
network , ground network , and sea network . It is a comprehen ⁃
sive integration of systems , technologies and applications , 
rather than just connecting different communication net ⁃
works . Therefore , the RIS -assisted CF MIMO network is well 
suited for SAGSIN because of its significant network cover ⁃
age capabilities and extraordinarily high data transfer 
speeds . However , given the heterogeneity of multi -layer net ⁃
works among SAGSIN , it is significant to thoroughly investi ⁃
gate how to integrate the RIS -assisted CF MIMO network 
with other networks to satisfy user QoS and achieve comple ⁃
mentary benefits among various networks .
6 Conclusions
In this paper , we provide a comprehensive survey of RIS -
assisted CF MIMO system by reviewing the recent achieve ⁃
ments in this area . In particular , we point out the key perfor ⁃
mance metrics , such as spectral efficiency and energy effi ⁃
ciency , and introduce the corresponding communication opti ⁃
mization techniques to achieve these metrics . Moreover , we 
discuss the potential applications of RIS -assisted CF MIMO 
in novel scenarios in B 5G systems such as PLS , UAV and 
WET . Finally , the open problems and potential directions 
are studied to promote in -depth investigations and develop ⁃
ments of RIS -assisted CF MIMO in future wireless networks .
References
[1] Samsung . The vision of 6G: bring the next hyper -connected experience to 
every corner of life [EB/OL ]. [2023 -03-22]. https ://cdn .codeground .org/nsr/
downloads/researchareas/ 20201201 _6G_Vision_web .pdf
[2] WONG V W S , SCHOBER R , NG D W K , et al . Key technologies for 5G 
wireless systems [M]. Cambridge , UK: Cambridge University Press , 2017
[3] ANDREWS J G , BUZZI S , CHOI W , et al . What will 5G be ? [J]. IEEE 
journal of selected areas in communications , 2014 , 32(6): 1065–1082 . 
DOI: 10.1109 /JSAC .2014 .2328098
[4] LOZANO A , HEATH R W , ANDREWS J G . Fundamental limits of coop ⁃
eration [J]. IEEE transactions on information theory , 2013 , 59(9): 5213–
5226 . DOI : 10.1109 /TIT.2013 .2253153
[5] NGO H Q , ASHIKHMIN A , YANG H , et al . Cell -free massive MIMO ver ⁃
sus small cells [J]. IEEE transactions on wireless communications , 2017 , 
16(3): 1834–1850 . DOI : 10.1109 /TWC .2017 .2655515
[6] NAYEBI E , ASHIKHMIN A , MARZETTA T L , et al . Precoding and power 
optimization in cell -free massive MIMO systems [J]. IEEE transactions on 
wireless communications , 2017 , 16(7): 4445–4459 . DOI : 10.1109 /
TWC .2017 .2698449
[7] NAYEBI E , ASHIKHMIN A , MARZETTA T L , et al . Cell -free massive 
MIMO systems [C]//Proc . 49th Asilomar Conference on Signals , Systems 
84