ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1SUN Yunqi , JIAN Mengnan , YANG Jun , ZHAO Yajun , CHEN Yijian Degree of Freedom Analysis for Holographic MIMO Based on a Mutual -Coupling -Compliant Channel Model    Special Topic
However , the singular values of the super -dense arrays in the 
far-field are smaller than the benchmark , indicating that the 
channel 􀆳s DOF for both ULA and UPA may be degraded due 
to strong mutual coupling .
3.3 Potential DOF
To further investigate the vanishing singular values trun ⁃
cated by the limited antenna numbers in the receiving array , 
we select the scenarios where Tx has λ/4 spacing . We then in ⁃
crease the number of antennas in the corresponding Rx to 
match that of the Tx . The results for the singular values with 
increased receiving arrays are shown in Fig . 6.
The singular values in the dense ULA and UPA with the 
same antenna number have significant differences in their 
decaying modes compared to the fixed receiving array with 
only 16 antennas . The singular values of the ULA decrease 
rapidly at about half of the index , while those of UPA de ⁃
crease more slowly . Both ULA and UPA have more signifi ⁃
cant singular values than the benchmark condition and are 
decreasing much slower than communicating with 16 Rx an ⁃
tennas . This feature indicates that the mutual coupling 
could support more DOF as the number of receiving anten ⁃
nas increases .
We define the number of the singular values of a mutual 
coupling channel that is bigger than the biggest singular value 
of a λ/2 dipole array with the same aperture as the potential 
DOF . This can be represented by the equation ηp=num(σδ>
max(σλ2)), where num indicates a numerate operation , σδ 
and σλ2 are singular values of an array with a fixed aperture , 
and δ stands for the antenna spacing . It is worth noting that if 
δ=λ/2, the potential DOF is 0. From Figs . 5(a) and 6, we can 
see that the increasing antennas contribute more DOF for the channel .
Fig. 7 demonstrates how the decreasing spacing affects the 
potential DOF . As the antenna spacing decreases , the poten ⁃
tial DOF increases significantly . Moreover , the UPAs harvest 
more potential DOF than ULAs both in the near -field and the 
far-field. However , the difference in a specific antenna con ⁃
figuration between the near -field and the far -field is negli ⁃
gible . It is worth noting that the spatial correlation between 
the antennas restricts the DOF to reach the antenna number , 
as mentioned in Section 3.
4 Conclusions
In this paper , we introduce the DOF analysis method for 
HMIMO systems based on a mutual -coupling -compliant chan ⁃
nel model . We demonstrate that the localized spatial correla ⁃
tion of the impedance matrix contributes to the additional 
channel DOF . We further verify the spatial correlation with 
the mutual -coupling -compliant model and highlight the poten ⁃
tial DOF for a dense array with a fixed aperture in the pres ⁃
ence of abundant receiving antennas . The numerical simula ⁃
tions indicate that the potential DOF of a dense array with 
fixed aperture increases with the number of the antennas de ⁃
spite of the mutual coupling . Therefore , dense arrays are prac ⁃
ticable for harvesting more channel DOF and improving the 
communication channel quality (e.g. capacity ) within a fixed 
antenna aperture .
Acknowledgement
The authors would like to thank Dr . DUAN Xiangyang , Dr. 
ZONG Baiqing and Dr . YU Hongkang from ZTE Corporation 
for their kind support .
▲Figure 6. Singular values for ULA (49 dipoles ) and UPA (7×7 di⁃
poles ) with the same antenna number at both Tx and Rx , denoted as 
ETR in the legends . See Table 1 for the detailed configurations denoted 
by the legendsFF: far -field 
NF: near -field ULA : uniform linear array 
UPA : uniform planar array
▲Figure 7. Potential DOF for antenna spacing δ=λ/12, δ=λ/10, δ=
λ/6, and δ=λ/4DOF : degree of freedom 
FF: far -field NF: near -field 
ULA : uniform linear array UPA : uniform planar arraySingular value distributionlog10 σ
Singular value index0  10 20 30 40 50ULA_FF
UPA_FF
ULA_FF_ETR
UPA_FF_ETR
ULA_NF_ETR
UPA_NF_ETR0
-2
-4
-6
-8
-10
-12Potential DOF for dense arraysDOF number250
200
150
100
50
0
Antenna spacing/ λ0.075 0.100 0.125 0.150 0.175 0.200 0.225 0.250ULA_FF
UPA_FF
ULA_NF
UPA_NF
39