ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies    Review
could be widely deployed . This technology was also used simi ⁃
larly in Ref . [59], where a content -adaptive resampling (CAR ) 
network was proposed to achieve spatial down -sampling and 
was restored through bicubic interpolation , using frame extrac ⁃
tion to perform down -sampling in the time domain . At the de ⁃
coding end , the video frame interpolation network based on 
the optical flow was used for restoration .
5.3.4 Video Coding for Machines Optimized by End -to-End 
Video Compression Framework
Similar to learning -based end -to-end image compression algo ⁃
rithms , such methods can also be used for video compression . 
Traditional encoders adopt different coding strategies for I -frames 
and P -frames of video . This feature was considered and a 
learning -based video codec was proposed in Ref . [60], including 
feature extraction , feature encoding and decoding , image recon ⁃
struction , and neural network modules . Besides , different training 
network models were adopted for the I -frame and P -frame , and 
the reconstruction result of the compressed code stream of the I -
frame was used to assist in the reconstruction of the P -frame .
5.3.5 Hybrid Learning -Based Model and Traditional Codec to 
Boost Video Coding for Machines
The learning -based end -to-end compression method has a 
high compression performance , but its time complexity is 
high, and it will be time -consuming to compress all frames 
end -to-end. In order to solve this problem , some proposals 
have adopted hybrid video coding methods that only adopt 
learning -based compression algorithms for the important 
frames . Learning -based image coding was only used for I -
frames and optical flow -based inter -frame coding for P -frames[61]. In application , only the RoI area and auxiliary tar ⁃
get frame position information were encoded for image cod ⁃
ing. The RoI area was determined by the object detection net ⁃
work . For video coding , only in the smallest RoI region that 
all objects in a group of pictures (GOP ) were coded . The net ⁃
work optimized the loss function for image reconstruction 
MSE . This method performed well on object detection and in ⁃
stance segmentation but had a negative gain on object track ⁃
ing. In Ref . [62], learning -based image coding was used for 
the I -frame , and the traditional encoder VVC was used for 
the P -frame , which achieved good results in object detection , 
instance segmentation and object tracking .
5.4 Framework of VCM Track -2 Standardization
The method in VCM Track -2 started earlier and received 
many valuable proposals during several meetings after the CfP 
was proposed . In the 140th meeting of MPEG , 17 Track -2 pro⁃
posal responses were officially received , involving technical 
directions such as end -to-end video compression , traditional 
block -based video compression , hybrid end -to-end and tradi ⁃
tional video compression . In the current solution , there is a 
maximum performance improvement of 55% for object track ⁃
ing, a maximum performance improvement of 45% for in ⁃
stance segmentation , and a maximum performance improve ⁃
ment of 40% for object detection . Based on the current effect , 
MPEG continues to promote the VCM standardization work 
and officially transfers Track -2 from the demand group to the 
video group . In the most recent meetings , the main work con ⁃
tent of VCM Track -2 was to promote standardization and de ⁃
velop the test software platform of VCM .
Fig. 6 shows the overall framework of the Track -2 proposal , 
▲Figure 6. An overall framework of the Track -2 proposalAI: artificial intelligence
BG: background GaussianFG: foreground Gaussian
NN: neural networkROI: region of interest
VCM : video coding for machinesAdditional information :
decoder model selection ;
ROI metadata and descriptors ;
spatial resampling ratio and model selection/parameter setting ;
temporal resampling ratio and model selection/parameter setting ;Conformance point of 
existing standardConformance point of 
VCMOutput 
video
Task networkInput 
videoPre -analysisVCM encoder
Input do ⁃
main cate ⁃
gorization Statistics 
analysisNetwork -
based ROI 
detectionPre -processing Encoder Decoder RestorationVCM decoder
BG re ⁃
movalBG blur ⁃
ringFG re ⁃
freshing
ROI pack ⁃
ingROI scal ⁃
ingLayered en ⁃
coder
NN encoder
NN adaptor 
for human (if 
NN combines 
existing en ⁃
coder )
Existing en ⁃
coderNN decoder
NN adaptor for 
human (if NN 
combines exist ⁃
ing decoder )
Existing de ⁃
coderNN adaptor for 
machine (if NN 
combines exist ⁃
ing decoder )ROI based repacking 
resampling
Unpacking Rescaling
ROI based repacking , 
resampling
Spatial resampling
Temporal interpolation
Post filteringPro⁃
cessed 
videoRec 
video
Temporal resampling
(AI/statistics -based )Spatial resampling 
(frame/sequence level )Spatial/temporal bit alloca ⁃
tionROI based filtering , resa ⁃
mpling , and packingLayered de ⁃
coder
Video 
bit⁃
stream
73