ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LIU Mengyu , ZHANG Yang , JIN Yasheng , ZHI Kangda , PAN Cunhua Special Topic   Towards Near -Field Communications for 6G: Challenges and Opportunities
ξk,mx,my≈A
4πuk,z( ) ( ) mxΔx-uk,x2
+u2
k,z
{ } ( ) mxΔx-uk,x2
+( ) myΔy-uk,y2
+u2
k,z5
2,
(27)
χk,mx,my≈2π
λpmx,my-uk.(28)
The authors derived an explicit expression for single -user 
SNR based on the maximum ratio combining (MRC ) detector . 
As shown in Fig. 10(a), the SNR gradually increases to satura ⁃
tion with the increase of antenna numbers . Furthermore , the 
near -field channel model considering polarization mismatch 
satisfies the introduced theoretical upper bound .
Next, based on the proposed near -field channel model , the 
authors proposed a VR -based low -complexity transmission 
scheme by exploiting the spatial non -stationarity of XL -
MIMO . The dimensionality of the channel matrix in the trans ⁃
mission design can be greatly reduced by utilizing this 
method , thus reducing the computational complexity accord ⁃
ingly . Furthermore , the authors proposed a graph -theory based 
user grouping algorithm to categorize users with high VRs 
overlap ratios into one group . The authors then utilized the 
partial zero -forcing (PZF) detection algorithm to eliminate the 
mutual interference within each user group , which could fur ⁃
ther reduce the computational complexity .
As shown in Fig . 10(b), as the number of antenna ele ⁃
ments increases , the computational complexity of the whole 
array (WA)-based design rises considerably . For the VR -
based zero -forcing (ZF) algorithm and the graph -theory 
based PZF algorithm , low computational complexity can be 
achieved .
4 Future Directions
In this section , several promising directions of near -field 
communications are discussed according to the contributions 
and deficiencies of the aforementioned appealing works .
4.1 AI -Aided Near -Field Beam Training
The AI -based near -field beam training method proposed in 
Ref. [40] effectively reduces the pilot overhead , revealing the 
nonlinear signal processing capacity of AI . Therefore , the AI -
based method is perceived as a promising solution to the com ⁃
plex challenges in near -field communications . Specifically , it 
is reasonable to employ AI to deal with the massive param ⁃
eters in near -field problems , such as beamforming and chan ⁃
nel estimation .
In addition , most research mainly focuses on reducing the 
pilot overhead in the design of near -field beam training , while 
the effectiveness in complex environments is not fully ex ⁃
plored . Hence , it is crucial to study the trade -off between low 
pilot overhead and high accuracy and propose an effective near -field beam training method that can be applied in compli ⁃
cated propagation environment with multiple mobile users and 
scatters .
4.2 XL -RIS -Aided Near -Field Localization
As derived in Ref . [56], the proposed algorithm with XL -
RIS can achieve higher positioning resolution with proper de ⁃
sign to utilize the richer AoA information . It is also possible 
for a single -RIS -aided system to provide a 3D localization 
function by exploiting the near -field channel model . There ⁃
fore, near -field XL -RIS -aided localization can be considered 
as a promising innovation , and it is valuable to carry out more 
studies in terms of theoretical error distribution analysis as 
well as practical positioning algorithms .
Although Ref . [56] has achieved great performance in XL -
RIS -aided joint channel estimation and localization in a near -
▲Figure 10. Effects of the number of antennas on system performance 
and computational complexityPZF: partial zero -forcing
SNR: signal -noise ratioVR: visibility region
WA: whole arrayZF: zero -forcing(a) SNR versus the number of antennas M
(b) Computational complexity versus the number of antennas MNumber of antennas M100 102 104 106 108SNR/dB110
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20Proposed
Continuous aperture
Without polarization
Far -field
Limit ηp/2σ2
Limit ηp/3σ2
(a) SNR versus the number of antennas M
Number of antennas M1 000     1 500    2 000    2 500    3 000    3 500    4 000     4 500    5 000    5 500    6 00030
25
20
15
10
5
0ZF, WA
ZF, VR
PZFComputional complexity/Gflops
12