ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHAO Yaqiong , KE Hongqin , XU Wei , YE Xinquan , CHEN Yijian Review   RIS -Assisted Cell Free MIMO : A Survey
This is achieved under the control of a central processing unit 
(CPU) via high -speed fiber or wireless backhaul/fronthaul 
links . The biggest difference between CF MIMO and conven ⁃
tional massive MIMO systems is the absence of clear boundary 
demarcation between cells , which allows inter -cell interfer ⁃
ence to be effectively cancelled . According to Refs . [8–10], 
the CF MIMO system outperforms the traditional co -located an ⁃
tenna systems , such as massive MIMO , in terms of 95%-likely 
per -user spectral efficiency (SE). This is because the received 
signal at each UE suffers from disparate large -scale fading 
components from distinct APs , leading to high diversity gain . 
Besides , good quality of service (QoS) can be guaranteed to 
the cell -edge UE by deploying more APs in their vicinity , and 
thus the CF MIMO system often provides wider coverage than 
its counterpart . Due to these appealing advantages , the CF 
MIMO technique has been regarded as a promising candidate 
for future wireless networks[11], and has attracted increasing at ⁃
tention for its wide application in channel estimation[12], trans ⁃
mit beamforming[13] and resource allocation[14].
Nevertheless , to harvest the promising performance gains of 
the CF MIMO technique , 
more distributed APs are re ⁃
quired , which brings about 
high costs and power con ⁃
sumption in practical imple ⁃
mentations . This issue be ⁃
comes even more important 
when considering green and 
sustainable communications . 
Among various candidates , 
the emerging meta -surface 
technique called reconfigu ⁃
rable intelligent surface (RIS) 
stands out with its unique ca ⁃
pabilities of low cost , low en ⁃
ergy consumption and pro ⁃
grammability[15–19]. Made up 
of a large number of passive 
components , RIS can boost 
communication by reprogram ⁃
ming incident signals and re ⁃
flecting them in a certain di ⁃
rection under the control of an 
intelligent controller . In addi ⁃
tion, RIS can be handily inte ⁃
grated into existent communi ⁃
cation scenarios with low ca ⁃
bling costs and can be densely 
deployed regardless of inter ⁃
ference management among 
multiple RISs . The above ben ⁃
efits have motivated extensive 
study interests on the various applications of RISs in channel capacity improvement , cover ⁃
age extension , and power saving .
Motivated by the above discussions , we try to provide a thor ⁃
ough survey on RIS -assisted CF MIMO for next -generation 
wireless communications and future network applications in 
this paper . Specifically , we focus on recent contributions to 
typical performance metrics such as energy efficiency and 
spectral efficiency to understand the role of RISs in CF -MIMO 
systems from the viewpoint of communication optimization . 
Furthermore , some novel emerging applications of the RIS -
assisted CF MIMO technique within various future networks 
are investigated . Besides , some open problems and technical 
challenges are pointed out .
The organization of this survey is provided in Fig . 2, where 
key technologies of CF MIMO are first introduced in Section 
2. The interplay between RISs and CF MIMO systems is then 
introduced in terms of main communication performance met ⁃
rics and optimization frameworks in Section 3. Emerging appli ⁃
cations of RIS -assisted CF MIMO in wireless networks are fur ⁃
ther discussed in Section 4. Finally , the technical challenges 
▲Figure 2. Structure of this paperMIMO : multiple -input multiple -output      RIS : reconfigurable intelligent surfaceSection 1: Introduction
Section 2: Key technologies for cell -free MIMO 
systems
Section 3: Two performance metrics for RIS -
assisted cell -free MIMO
Section 4: Applications of RIS -assisted cell -free 
MIMO
Section 5: Technical challenges and future 
directions
Section 6: Conclusions• Channel estimation
• Transmit precoding and power control
• Synchronization and phase calibration
• Energy efficiency
• Spectral efficiency
• Physical layer security
• Unmanned aerial vehicle
• Wireless energy transfer
• Technical challenges
• Future directions
78