ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LIU Mengyu , ZHANG Yang , JIN Yasheng , ZHI Kangda , PAN Cunhua Towards Near -Field Communications for 6G: Challenges and Opportunities    Special Topic
should be utilized . In the reactive near field where the EM 
fields are reactive , signals are not propagated as EM waves 
but stored or released as energy . Since the distance of the re ⁃
active near field is very small , the near field in the following 
discussion mainly refers to the radiating near field .
Additionally , as depicted in Fig . 1, we categorize the far 
and near fields into three models[17]. 1) Uniform planar wave 
(UPW ): in the far field , signal propagation typically conforms 
to this model where the phase difference in signal transmis ⁃
sion is linear and the transmitted power is uniform for differ ⁃
ent antenna elements . 2) Uniform spherical wave (USW ): in 
the near field , when the distance between the transmitter and 
receiver is less than the Rayleigh distance but greater than the 
uniform power distance[17, 22], the phase difference between the 
signals propagated by different antennas is nonlinear while 
the transmitted power is uniform . 3) Non -uniform spherical 
wave (NUSW ): in the near field , when the distance between 
the transmitter and the receiver is less than the uniform power 
distance , the phase difference between the signals propagated 
by different antennas is nonlinear and the transmitted power is 
not uniform .
2.2 Generic Channel Modeling
In this section , we first derive a general channel model con ⁃
sidering MIMO systems . After that , we analyze a simple sce ⁃
nario of a multiple -input single -output (MISO ) system with a 
uniform linear array (ULA ) array at the base station to gain 
more insights .
2.2.1 MIMO Channel Model
As shown in Fig. 2, we first analyze the channel model of the 
MIMO system . Let us consider a MIMO system that includes a 
transmitter with Nt antennas and user equipment (UE) with Nr 
antennas . We first set the center of the BS antenna as the origin , i.e., s0=[0,0,0]T. Then , the locations of the m-th element of BS 
and the n-th antenna of UE can be expressed by sm=
[sm
x, sm
y, sm
z]T, ∀m=-(Nt-1)2,⋯,(Nt-1)2 and un=
[un
x, un
y, un
z]T, ∀n=-(Nr-1)2,⋯,(Nr-1)2, respectively . 
In addition , the distance between the m-th antenna of UE and 
the n-th element of BS is given by rm,n= un-sm. Then , the 
line -of-sight (LoS) channel coefficient can be expressed as :
[HLoS]m,n=αm,ne-j2π
λrm,n,(1)
where αm, n represents the amplitude for the channel link be ⁃
tween the m-th antenna of BS and the n-th element of UE .
1) Far -field channel
Firstly , we can define the propagation direction vector from 
the transmitter to UE as follows :
v(θ,ϕ)=[cosθsinϕ,sinθsinϕ,cosϕ]T. (2)
Based on the plane -wave assumption[23] for the far -field 
channel , the propagation distance can be approximated by 
rm,n≈r0-vT(θ, ϕ)sm-vT(θ, ϕ)(un-u0), where r0=
 u0-s0 denotes the distance between the central elements 
of the receiving and the transmitting antenna arrays . More ⁃
over, we assume αm,n≈α, where α denotes the amplitude for 
the channel link between the central antenna elements of the 
transmitter and the UE . Then , the LoS far -field channel coeffi ⁃
cient can be rewritten as :
[Hfar
LoS]m,n=αm,ne-j2π
λrm,n≈αe-j2π
λr0ej2π
λvT(θ,ϕ)smej2π
λvT(θ,ϕ)()un-u0.
(3)
From the channel coefficients in Eq . (3), we can decouple 
the MIMO channel into the product of two array response vec ⁃
tors. Therefore , the far -field LoS MIMO channel can be ex ⁃
pressed as :
Hfar
LoS=αaUE
far(θ,φ)(aTR
far(θ,φ))T, (4)
where
aUE
far(θ,φ)=é
ëêêêêej2π
λvT(θ,ϕ)( )u-(Nr-1)2-u0,⋯,j2π
λvT(θ,ϕ)( )u(Nr-1)2-u0ù
ûúúúúT
,
(5)
aTR
far(θ,φ)=é
ëêêêêej2π
λvT(θ,ϕ)s-(Nt-1)2,⋯,ej2π
λvT(θ,ϕ)s
(Nt-1)2ù
ûúúúúT
.
(6)
Furthermore , the form of the far -field non -line -of-sight 
(NLoS ) channel is similar to the far -field LoS channel . There ⁃
fore, the overall far -field MIMO channel model with multi -
path components is given by :
 ▲Figure 2. Near -field channel modelNLoS : non -line -of-sightScattererUser
NLoS pathLoS pathNLoS pathScattererBase station
LoS: line -of-sight
05