ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1SHEN Jiayu , YANG Jun , ZHU Chen , DENG Zhiji , HUANG Chongwen Near -Field Beam Training for Holographic MIMO Communications : Typical Methods , Challenges and Future Directions    Special Topic
hk=NxNz∑
l=1L
βle-jψlgl(θ, ϕ, r) , (2)
where L is the number of paths , βl and ψl denote the complex 
path gain and phase shift of the l-th path . In the line of sight 
(LoS) link dominated channel , β1≫βl, l≠1, thus
hk=NxNzβ1e-jψ1g1(θ, ϕ, r) , (3)
where g1(θ, ϕ, r) denotes the near -field steering vector , which 
is given by
g1(θ, ϕ, r)=1
NxNz[e-j2π
λc( )D( )-Nx-1
2,-Nz-1
2-rk,…,
e-j2π
λc( ) D()m,n-rk,…, e-j2π
λc( )D( )Nx-1
2,Nz-1
2-rk]H, (4)
where D(m, n) is the distance between the (m, n)-th antenna 
of the k-th BS and the user .
Fully implementing digital beamforming is challenging be ⁃
cause of the massive size of the antenna array and the high ex ⁃
penses and power consumption of the RF chain[17]. The solu ⁃
tion here is hybrid analog/digital precoding , where the re ⁃
quired precoding and beamforming are in the analog and digi ⁃
tal domains . The digital precoding layer adds more DoF to the 
precoding design problem than the pure analog beamforming 
solution . This allows hybrid precoding to achieve better perfor ⁃
mance , especially in multi -stream and multi -user transmis ⁃
sions . It is important to note that analog beamforming with fi ⁃
nite RF chains and constant amplitude constraints relies heav ⁃
ily on predefined codebooks . Let a(θ, ϕ, r)=FRFkfBBk denote 
the beam -aligned observation vector , also known as the code ⁃
word . Codebook -based beam training is to find the optimal 
beam -aligned observation vector a from the codebook C=
[a(θ1, ϕ1, r1);…;a(θN, ϕN, rN)]  to maximize the beam gain 
at the receiver . It can be easily obtained that the optimal 
beam -aligned observation vector is a(θ, ϕ, r)=g1(θ, ϕ, r). 
Without loss of generality , it is similar to the ULA scenario 
where the users are all in the yz-plane . The near -field channel 
is modeled as :
hk=NxNzβ1e-jψ1b1(θ, r) , (5)
where the near -field steering vector considers two dimensions .
A qualitative change in HMIMO compared with MIMO sys ⁃
tems is that HMIMO cell elements are placed denser and 
denser to form almost spatially continuous apertures . At the 
same time , the number of antenna units is increasing (Nx and 
Nz are larger in HMIMO systems ). In this case , the neighbor ⁃
ing cell elements in between will act . Mutual coupling , which 
is considered harmful in conventional communication sys ⁃
tems, can be mitigated in MIMO antenna arrays by placing neighboring antenna elements within a half -wavelength dis ⁃
tance of each other . However , proper utilization of mutual cou ⁃
pling in HMIMO surfaces has the potential to achieve super 
directionality , which can be more apparent when the number 
of cell elements becomes larger . In addition , this feature can 
potentially improve the received SNR , thus extending the cov ⁃
erage of the structure . In conclusion , it is important to study 
the mutual coupling effects and devise convenient mathemati ⁃
cal models for coupling -aware wireless design . In addition to 
mutual coupling , spatially continuous apertures offer another 
important potential , that is signal processing can be performed 
entirely on the EM domain instead of the traditional digital do ⁃
main . To this end , EM -inspired analyses and techniques can 
be designed to revolutionize the existing frameworks for wire ⁃
less operation into one based on the hybrid digital EM do ⁃
main , or even hybrid digital and EM -based frameworks , pav⁃
ing the way for a high degree of integration . Flexible process ⁃
ing aims for high spatial resolution and low latency wireless 
communication .
3 Near -Field Beam Training
This section focuses on beam training in near -field commu ⁃
nication . First , three major existing methods are introduced : 
exhaustive beam training[18], hierarchical beam training[18–19] 
and multi -beam training[20]. Then , we will analyze the potential 
application scenarios of near -field beam training .
3.1 Exhaustive Beam Training
A straightforward approach to this problem is conducting an 
exhaustive search for the various dimensions of the con ⁃
structed codebook . The performance of the exhaustive search 
method depends mainly on the constructed codebook .
Considering the scenario under HMIMO , where the users 
are located in a three -dimensional space , the simplest way to 
construct the codebook is a codebook with equally spaced 
samples in each of the three dimensions , i.e., polar coordinate 
(θ, ϕ, r) or cartesian coordinate (x, y, z). Subsequently , all code ⁃
words in the designed near -field codebook are traversed se ⁃
quentially in exhaustive search training[18]. Similarly , if we 
consider the scenario where the users are all in the yz-plane , it 
is a 2D exhaustive search for θ and r dimensions or the x and 
y dimensions . In addition to this , we can consider the polar -
domain near -field codebook[21], which is given by C=
{C1,C2,…,CN} with Cn={cn,0, cn,1,…, cn,Sn-1}, ∀n∈N. Each 
codeword cn,sn,sn∈Sn≜{0,1,…,Sn-1} corresponds to a 
beam pointing to a specific direction -and -distance pair , 
(θn, rn,sn), which is given by cn,sn=b(θn, rn,sn). The codebook is 
constructed in the following manner . Initially , the two -
dimensional spatial domain is divided into N sectors with a 
central angle θn. In the distance domain , the distance for each 
sector is divided into Sn distinctive non -uniform regions that 
correspond to each central angle θn. The distance sampling in ⁃
43