ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHAO Yaqiong , KE Hongqin , XU Wei , YE Xinquan , CHEN Yijian Review   RIS -Assisted Cell Free MIMO : A Survey
also be utilized under angle -based precoding according to dif ⁃
ferent requirements[21].
While the above precoding techniques can achieve optimal 
antenna gain , they demand the same number of radio fre ⁃
quency (RF) chains as that of the transmit antennas . This 
causes high hardware cost and power consumption , especially 
in CF MIMO systems equipped with a vast number of APs . To 
this end , hybrid analog and digital precoding , for which mul ⁃
tiple antennas are connected to the same RF chain , is a more 
attractive alternative[29]. However , due to the unit -modulus 
constraint of the analog phase shifters , it is hard to obtain the 
optimal solution of the hybrid precoding . Up to now , the exist ⁃
ing studies on the design of hybrid precoding schemes in CF 
MIMO systems are mainly divided into two kinds . One ex ⁃
ploits the block coordinate descent (BCD ) algorithm to alterna ⁃
tively optimize the analog and digital domain precodings[30], 
and the other resorts to heuristic solutions , where analog pre ⁃
coding is designed by maximizing the received signal power 
and traditional digital precoding schemes such as ZF can be 
utilized based on the equivalent channel for multiuser interfer ⁃
ence cancellation . Besides , advanced machine learning -based 
solutions have also shown great potential in the design of hy ⁃
brid precoding[31].
2.3 Synchronization and Phase Calibration
In CF MIMO systems with massive geographically distrib ⁃
uted APs and users , the signals from different APs generally 
experience different propagation delays , leading to timing syn ⁃
chronization among the received signals . To realize coherent 
transmission , the APs need to maintain relative signal time 
synchronization and phase calibration[32]. Furthermore , the 
synchronization accuracy requirement of CF MIMO networks 
becomes more demanding as more users become time -
sensitive . To address this issue , many time synchronization 
schemes are proposed , such as one -way message dissemina ⁃
tion, two -way message exchange , and receiver -only synchroni ⁃
zation . Generally , after the clock offset and clock skew are es ⁃
timated , the above timing misalignment management schemes 
are adopted[33]. Besides , to ensure accurate CSI at the APs , 
phase calibration should be performed on the uplink transmit ⁃
ted signals . To this end , a reference signal is needed to obtain 
the over -the-air reciprocity calibration[34].
3 Two Performance Metrics For RIS -Assisted 
Cell -Free MIMO
With the help of RISs , CF MIMO can enable better commu ⁃
nication to user terminals than typical massive MIMO and 
pure CF MIMO . To harvest the promised performance gains 
provided by the RIS -assisted CF MIMO technique , it is neces ⁃
sary to optimize the resource allocation of the distributed net ⁃
work . The optimization objective can be different QoS metrics 
based on the actual need . In this section , we investigate the in ⁃
terplay between the RIS -assisted MIMO technique and wire ⁃less resource allocation optimization in terms of various com ⁃
munication metrics .
3.1 Energy Efficiency
RISs are highly recommended in CF MIMO systems due to 
their low cost and energy consumption . Various studies have 
been devoted to deeply investigating how RIS acts as an 
energy -efficient technique in CF MIMO systems . By itera ⁃
tively optimizing the digital beamforming at the APs and the 
RIS -based analog beamforming , the energy efficiency of the 
RIS -assisted CF MIMO system can beat that of the conven ⁃
tional distributed antenna system and the no -RIS case by or ⁃
ders of magnitude in Ref . [35]. Furthermore , it is observed 
that by replacing some of the APs with RISs , a two -fold perfor ⁃
mance gain in terms of energy efficiency can be harvested 
compared with the conventional CF MIMO scheme without 
RIS, which indicates the validity of RISs . Similarly , the au ⁃
thors in Ref . [36] proposed an iterative alternating algorithm 
based on a fractional programming method and successive 
lower -bound maximization to maximize the energy efficiency . 
The simulation also illustrates that with the default settings , 
the proposed design can offer an improvement of at least 
168% higher energy efficiency than traditional user -centric 
CF MIMO systems without RIS assistance .
However , the above research has not considered practical 
constraints such as limited backhaul capacity . As a remedy , 
Ref. [37] devised an energy efficiency maximization design for 
RIS -aided CF MIMO networks under the constraints of per -
AP transmit power , limited backhaul capacity , nonconvexity 
of RIS reflection , and minimum achievable rate requirement . 
As expected , the performance of the proposed RIS -aided CF 
MIMO system outperforms that of the co -located network with 
or without RIS .
3.2 Spectral Efficiency
As a counterpart of energy efficiency , spectral efficiency is 
also a main communication metric . Since RIS can construct a 
favorable propagation environment by artificially creating a 
virtual line -of-sight (LoS) link , the signals of users at a dead 
zone or cell edge can be improved , thus bringing about spec ⁃
tral efficiency enhancement to the CF MIMO system .
As the first attempt , the authors in Ref . [38] proposed the 
concept of RIS -assisted CF MIMO to improve the network ca ⁃
pacity or the spectral efficiency of the distributed MIMO sys ⁃
tem. Specifically , the authors considered a general framework 
with multiple antennas , multiple APs , multiple users , multiple 
RISs and multiple carriers . At the beginning of a large coher ⁃
ent timescale , each user is matched with specified RISs by the 
proposed linear conic relaxation -based matching method . In 
the rest of the coherent timescale , only the channels of the 
matched user -RIS pairs are estimated and exploited for joint 
active and passive precoding design , and those of the un ⁃
matched RISs are modeled as random noise . This process is 
80