ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Review   Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies
formance gain . Similarly , for instance segmentation tasks , the 
BD -rate gains are −83.35% and −96.01% respectively com ⁃
pared with image anchor and feature anchor . This proposal 
holds substantial academic value and exhibits promising re ⁃
search prospects .
5.3 Methods for Track -2
The methods of VCM Track -2 compress and transmit image/
video first , and then perform back -end machine vision tasks . 
Compared with the methods of VCM Track -1, they complete 
the reconstruction of the input signal , which can be viewed by 
human eyes instead of only machine tasks . These methods 
generally use the end -to-end compression framework . Since 
the back -end machine vision task depends on reconstructing 
image/video frames , the consistent approach of the Track -2 
proposal with better performance is to change the loss function 
of the end -to-end compression network , adding task loss 
weighting to the loss function . The end -to-end compression 
model is retrained when fixing the network parameters to ob ⁃
tain better compression performance on specific tasks . This 
type of method can be mainly divided into the following cat ⁃
egories in terms of a specific implementation .
5.3.1 Learning -Based Joint Optimization for Image Compres ⁃
sion and Vision Tasks
At present , the effective proposals in VCM Track -2 are all 
based on the combination of learning -based image coding and 
back -end machine vision tasks . Taking the object detection 
task as an example , the entire model is composed of neural 
networks , where the encoder and decoder use relatively ma ⁃
ture end -to-end image compression models , such as 
cheng 2020[34], bmshj 2018 -hyperprior[32], and mbt 2018 -
mean[49]. And then the parameters of the back -end machine vi ⁃
sion task model are fixed , introducing them as a loss function 
to the training process . Most of the current methods[50–53] in 
Track -2 adopt this idea . It is obvious that the core of such pro ⁃
posals is actually how to train a more efficient image compres ⁃
sion network under the condition of changing the loss function 
so that it can perform better on specific back -end machine vi ⁃
sion tasks .
5.3.2 Video Coding For Machine Vision Based on Region of  
Interest
When a video is encoded , not all regions of the picture are 
of an equal value , since some regions contain important infor ⁃
mation that attracts the attention from humans or machines , 
while others are ignored . Based on this situation , some re ⁃
searchers have proposed a video coding method based on the 
region of interest (RoI). Simply speaking , these methods allo ⁃
cate more bit rate resources to the region with a high degree of 
interest for refined coding , while appropriately reducing cod ⁃
ing quality for the non -interesting area , which achieves overall 
code rate savings . Currently , there are several representative 
methods as follows .Ericsson proposed a preliminary idea implemented based 
on VTM[54], and the compressed video can be decoded using 
any compatible VVC decoder . This method performs object de ⁃
tection on the input video sequence , using the detection box 
as the RoI area , and adjusts the offset of the quantization pa ⁃
rameter (QP) according to whether the coding tree units (CTU) 
contain detection boxes . If the CTU contains a detection box , 
it will be further distinguished depending on the size of the ob ⁃
ject. In terms of compression efficiency , this method achieves 
the same machine vision performance as the anchor at a lower 
bit rate .
KALVA et al .[55] used YOLOv 7[56] to detect the RoI area . 
Since the detection boxes of different targets overlapped , they 
were superimposed and spliced to obtain an irregular polygo ⁃
nal RoI area , and then the irregular area was divided into rect ⁃
angles of different sizes which would be scaled , rearranged , 
and packed into a new frame . This method could separately 
encode and decode the RoI area and the non -interested area , 
thereby reducing the overall bit rate . In Ref . [57], a method 
based on machine attention calculation was proposed , which 
calculated the machine attention value of the input signal at 
the encoding end , and divided the coding unit (CU) block in 
one frame into high attention area (HAR ) and low attention 
area (LAR ), taking different rate control strategies respec ⁃
tively . At the decoding end , these two areas were decoded 
separately and reassembled into a complete frame to recon ⁃
struct the input signal . This method had a certain gain on the 
image dataset , and the performance fluctuated obviously ac ⁃
cording to the sequence and different bit rate points on the 
video dataset . The above methods reduce the bit rate while 
maintaining the accuracy of the machine vision task .
5.3.3 Machine Vision -Oriented Video Coding Based on 
Spatial -Temporal Up -and -Down Sampling
A video signal can be viewed as several consecutive im ⁃
ages. Different from a single picture , adjacent video frames 
are similar in the time domain , and there is a large temporal 
redundancy . However , many methods simply treat video as 
multiple pictures without considering their temporal correla ⁃
tion, and there is still room for further optimization .
At present , some researchers compress video in the time do ⁃
main , usually using the method of frame extraction and frame 
complementation . A joint adaptive spatial -temporal (JAST ) 
system was proposed in Ref . [58], which converted the input 
signal into a form more suitable for encoding through machine 
vision -oriented pre -analysis and pre -processing . The adaptive 
temporal up -and -down sampling based on texture complexity 
could be accomplished by frame extraction and interpolation 
technology to reduce temporal redundancy , and spatial up -
sampling could be realized by image resizing and super -
resolution technology to reduce spatial redundancy . In addi ⁃
tion, since VVC was used as the core codec , JAST naturally 
inherited many capabilities of VVC , which were universal and 
72