ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1SHEN Jiayu , YANG Jun , ZHU Chen , DENG Zhiji , HUANG Chongwen Special Topic   Near -Field Beam Training for Holographic MIMO Communications : Typical Methods , Challenges and Future Directions
terval increases with distance . This is expected since the ef ⁃
fect of distance on the beamforming design decreases with dis ⁃
tance and eventually disappears in the far -field region . The ad ⁃
vantage of constructing the codebook in this way is that the co ⁃
herence between different code words in the codebook is 
small , which improves the efficiency of the exhaustive search .
Obviously , the narrower the sampling interval during code ⁃
book construction , the greater the codebook ’s spatial resolu ⁃
tion, and the outcomes are more precise following exhaustive 
beam training . However , this training process results in in ⁃
creased delay and overhead[22]. It should be pointed out that 
the exhaustive search method can always find the optimal solu ⁃
tion by constructing a reasonable codebook , therefore making 
it a suitable benchmark for comparing with other schemes .
3.2 Hierarchical Beam Training
The hierarchical codebook scheme has been proposed to 
solve the beam training problem in the far field[13–14]. The hier ⁃
archical codebook is inspired by the fact that the overhead of 
beam training mainly depends on the size of the codebook , but 
the size of the codebook and the accuracy of the training are a 
tradeoff . Therefore , the hierarchical codebook considers the 
design of different levels of sub -codebooks , each of which has 
different sampling intervals and numbers of sampling points . 
During the training process , the codebook is searched sequen ⁃
tially layer by layer to simultaneously reduce the codebook 
space and ensure the training accuracy . Of course , the design 
of hierarchical codebooks should have corresponding prin ⁃
ciples[23]. Firstly , the codebook needs to cover the entire sam ⁃
pling space , which is to ensure the accuracy of the results . At 
the same time , in order to reduce the steps in training , the 
lower codebook is a subset of the upper codebook , so that 
when searching layer by layer , only the corresponding subset 
needs to be searched in turn . Following are two hierarchical 
beam training schemes for near -field beam training .
As shown in Fig . 2(a), similar to the layered codebook in 
the far -field beam search , a similar effect can be achieved in 
the near -field by setting smaller and smaller sampling inter ⁃
vals in the layer -by-layer codebook . The difference is that the 
layered codebook for the far -field is 
one -dimensional , while the layered 
codebook for the near -field is two - 
or three -dimensional . Based on the 
hierarchical near -field codebook de ⁃
scribed above , the basic idea of the 
hierarchical near -field beam train ⁃
ing scheme is to search from the 1st 
level sub -codebook to the K-th 
level sub -codebook[18]. In addition 
to this , there is another hierarchical 
beam training scheme based on the 
polar domain representation[19]. In 
order to adapt to the characteristics of near -field communication , the hierarchical codebook is de ⁃
signed as in Fig . 2(b). The codebook W= {W1,W2,…,Wnlv} 
consists of nlv levels of codebooks . The upper -layer codebook 
Wu={W1,W2,…,Wnlv-1} is designed to reduce the beam 
searching steps . While the lower -layer codebook Wl={Wnlv} 
aims to provide high beamforming gain for receivers in the 
Fresnel region . To reduce the beam searching steps , the 
upper -layer codebook W u is designed . In the upper -layer co ⁃
debook , the i-th codeword of the l-th layer codebook Wl[i] is 
assigned to a subset of codewords Wi
l+1 in the next layer : 
Wi
l+1=Wl+1[i1],Wl+1[i2],…,Wl+1[ik]. Beam relocation 
and beam rotation methods are used for the design of the up ⁃
per codebook . In the polar domain , beam rotation and beam re ⁃
location can be used to introduce a rotation angle and reloca ⁃
tion of a specific distance from an existing codeword , respec ⁃
tively . As a result , a hierarchical codebook can be obtained 
for each layer . The lower -layer codebook W l is designed to 
match the strongest multipath components (MPCs ) in the chan ⁃
nel and provide high beamforming gains as many as possible . 
After the construction of a codebook , a top -down level by level 
codebook search remains .
The advantage of hierarchical beam training is the reduced 
training overhead , but there are some disadvantages . The use 
of wide beams early in the hierarchical beam training leads to 
a decrease in beamforming gain , thus the correct wide beam 
may not be recognized at a low SNR and ultimately the opti ⁃
mal beam direction may not be detected . Secondly , layered 
beam training suffers from serious inherent error propagation 
problems[24]. Moreover , the hierarchical training results in ad ⁃
ditional delay due to the need to compare and discriminate the 
recognition results at each level to determine the training sub -
codebook for the next stage .
3.3 Multi -Beam Training
In order to reduce the time of conventional single -beam 
training , multi -beam training methods for HMIMO communi ⁃
cation are introduced [20].
▲Figure 2. Hierarchical codebook in the near -field communication(a) Hierarchical near -field codebook search process diagram (b) Polar -domain hierarchical codebookK-th levelHierarchical near -field 
codebook2nd level
…1st levelNear -field
codebook 1
10rmin
W1[0]
W1[1]r
wu
W2[1]
W2[0]W2[2]
W2[3]
Wnlv[0]wllv
…
…
…θ
44