ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies    Review
higher compression efficiency while maintaining good perfor ⁃
mance on machine vision tasks , considering the characteris ⁃
tics of the machine system . As a result , there is an urgent 
need to develop new standards for video compression in ma ⁃
chine vision tasks .
Machine vision tasks are different from human vision 
tasks , which have different purposes and evaluation metrics . 
For traditional human vision tasks , the goal is to rebuild in ⁃
put images or videos to their original subjective quality , with 
evaluation metrics used to measure the degree of pixel do ⁃
main distortion . In the field of machine vision tasks , the 
VCM standard identifies and summarizes common machine 
tasks . It specifically outlines five representative tasks , 
namely object detection , instance segmentation , object track ⁃
ing, human pose estimation and action recognition . These 
tasks are crucial in machine vision applications and play a 
significant role in advancing the capabilities of video coding 
for machines . In order to compare the effects of different 
methods , new evaluation metrics are introduced to measure 
the performance of machine vision tasks instead of pixel do ⁃
main distortion for human viewing . The pursuit of high -
efficiency compression in machine vision , while simultane ⁃
ously mitigating redundancy , has garnered significant atten ⁃
tion from scholars . However , the challenge lies in reducing 
the bitrate while preserving the accuracy of machine vision 
tasks . Therefore , the international standard organization 
named Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG ) established 
the VCM group , focusing on achieving efficient compression 
for machine vision . The work of the VCM group can be sum ⁃
marized as follows : 1) introducing use cases and related re ⁃
quirements for machine vision and hybrid human -machine vi ⁃
sion compression tasks ; 2) collecting data sets with evalua ⁃
tion metrics and ground truth ; 3) collecting technical evi ⁃
dence of feature compression and human -machine hybrid 
compression ; 4) developing an evaluation framework to com ⁃
pare different technology options ; 5) developing the stan ⁃
dards for VCM .
The VCM standard has gained significant attention from 
scholars and experts in both academia and industry , result ⁃
ing in notable progress . In this paper , we will give a compre ⁃
hensive summary of the usage scenarios , representative tech ⁃
nical proposals of VCM , and the latest developments of VCM 
standards .
This paper is organized as follows . We first provide an in ⁃
troduction of the VCM standard , including but not limited to 
use cases , requirements , and processing pipelines . And then 
we introduce two different technical routes in the standard re ⁃
spectively , and divide related technical proposals into sev ⁃
eral categories for introduction . In addition , the experimental 
performance and standardization process corresponding to 
these two routes are also introduced . Finally , we conclude 
with a discussion .2 Related Works
This section provides a brief overview of the development of 
VCM standards . To improve the performance and efficiency of 
VCM , some early research has been devoted to extracting key 
information that can characterize machine vision tasks from 
images , that is , visual features . These visual features are 
stored in a highly compact representation , which can effec ⁃
tively address various visual analysis tasks with significantly 
smaller data volume compared with compressed video . For 
this method of using compact representation to assist machine 
vision tasks , MPEG standardized it as compact descriptors for 
visual search (CDVS )[1] and for video analysis (CDVA )[2] in 
2015  and 2019 , respectively . In CDVS , the methods based on 
interest point detection and local feature description are used 
to calculate the compact expression of image features . The nor ⁃
malization process has made significant progress in reducing 
the number of image feature data and computational complex ⁃
ity. On the basis of CDVS , CDVA utilizes deep learning tech ⁃
nology to shorten the descriptor length while simultaneously 
enhancing its ability to describe videos .
Recently , with the development of deep neural networks , 
learning -based methods have been widely used in image and 
feature compression . LE et al .[3] proposed an image codec 
through end -to-end training and balanced trade -offs among 
the image distortion , analysis accuracy and bitrate . LE et al .[4] 
further proposed an inference -time content -adaptive strategy 
to optimize the latent representation of the end -to-end image 
codec . This method improves the compression efficiency of 
machine -consumption videos . TU et al .[5] used an end -to-end 
method to compress image signals and semantic features of dif ⁃
ferent granularity , and a cross -layer context model was pro ⁃
posed to reduce the information redundancy among them . 
CHOI et al .[6] studied the deep feature compression perfor ⁃
mance between the mobile device and the cloud , and pro ⁃
posed a method that improved the accuracy of tasks under 
lossy feature compression . They also investigated latent -space 
scalability for multi -task collaborative intelligence in Ref . [7].
In terms of VCM standards , for example , DUAN et al .[8] in⁃
troduced and analyzed VCM in combination with the new 
fields generated in the emerging MPEG standardization work , 
giving the definition , formulation , and paradigm of VCM . This 
literature focuses more on the theoretical framework of video 
coding and provides a paradigm of collaborative video and fea ⁃
ture compression , which has been submitted to the VCM 
group as a piece of evidence . GAO et al .[9] summarized the 
work of the MPEG VCM group , and elaborated on the specific 
content and requirements of VCM standards . Additionally , 
with the rapid development of standards , many new methods 
have been proposed during the standardization process .
In addition , China’s video coding standard organizations in ⁃
cluding the Audio Video coding Standard (AVS) and China 
Electronics Standardization Institute (CESI ) have launched re ⁃
search on vision coding for machines . The data coding for ma ⁃
63