ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1SUN Yunqi , JIAN Mengnan , YANG Jun , ZHAO Yajun , CHEN Yijian Degree of Freedom Analysis for Holographic MIMO Based on a Mutual -Coupling -Compliant Channel Model    Special Topic
and is clearly band -limited .
Recent DOF analysis can be conducted with a wavenumber 
domain HMIMO model for the spatial bandwidth defini ⁃
tion[6, 14]. The DOF of the wavenumber model is defined by the 
number of discrete plane wave modes , which gives a desirable 
approximation in the wavenumber domain . Since the HMIMO 
channel in the wavenumber domain is band -limited , the DOF 
of the HMIMO channel is defined for a uniform linear array 
(ULA ) and uniform planar array (UPA ) respectively :
η1=2
λl, for ULA with length l,(3)
η2=π
λ2l0l1, for UPA with size l0×l1,(4)
where η1 and η2 stand for the DOF of the one -dimensional and 
two -dimensional HMIMO transmitting arrays , and λ is the 
wavelength .
Recent DOF analysis of HMIMO can also follow the rank 
definition . For example , the dyadic Green function HMIMO 
model studies the physical nature of the radiation and makes 
use of the dyadic Green function to determine the vector solu ⁃
tion of the spatial electrical field . Due to the vector nature of 
the electrical field , researchers claim that HMIMO could sup ⁃
port three independent orthogonal polarizations[15], thereby in ⁃
creasing the size of the channel matrix and the DOF .
Moreover , researchers have also studied the influence of 
mutual coupling on the HMIMO channel DOF . The close an ⁃
tenna spacing and the continuous current surface are very 
popular among the current configuration of HMIMO antennas . 
Such configuration would inevitably cause the single port 
transmitting signal to form a current distribution on the trans ⁃
mitting surface because of electromagnetic laws , which is the 
physical illustration of mutual coupling . To study the influ ⁃
ence of the mutual coupling on the rank of the channel matrix , 
an effective DOF was proposed to evaluate the channel perfor ⁃
mance in Ref . [16], which is
ηe=()∑i σi2
∑iσ2
i,
(5)
where σi is the i-th singular value of the channel matrix . The 
mutual coupling can also be included into the DOF analysis 
by modifying the spatial correlation matrix[17]. This model suc ⁃
cessfully reveals the effective DOF of HMIMO under mutual 
coupling from the transmitting side .
While there are many studies on HMIMO , it is still impor ⁃
tant to establish a mutual coupling compliant channel model 
and examine the impact of mutual coupling on the HMIMO 
channel . In this paper , we focus on the DOF analysis for 
HMIMO with strong mutual coupling for both transmitting and receiving sides , and reveal the potential DOF of HMIMO for 
communicating with sufficient receiving antennas . In Section 2, 
we introduce the mutual -coupling -compliant channel model of 
a communication system with strong mutual coupling in its 
transmitting array . In Section 3, we introduce the DOF analy ⁃
sis method based on popular HMIMO models and highlight 
several novel DOF features observed by the mutual -coupling -
compliant model . Finally , we summarize and discuss the DOF 
analysis under mutual coupling and its potential application 
in the last section .
2 DoF Analysis Based on a Mutual -Coupling -
Compliant Channel Model
2.1 Circuit Model for HMIMO
The channel model is one of the most fundamental prob ⁃
lems in studying HMIMO communication . In an HMIMO sys ⁃
tem, a tightly -coupled transmitting array (Tx) and a weakly -
coupled receiving array (Rx) communicate at a central fre ⁃
quency f0. We assume that the Tx and Rx are parallel to each 
other , and the distance between them is much greater than the 
wavelength .
We utilize a mutual -coupling -compliant channel model pro ⁃
posed by AKROUT et al .[18] to analyze the DOF features in the 
HMIMO system . The basic concept of the circuit model is to 
simplify the complicated electromagnetic problem to a simple 
current -voltage equation , which is Ohm 􀆳s law[19]. The circuit 
model introduces an impedance to describe the radiation effi ⁃
ciency and the path loss simultaneously . And the impedance 
is calculated by the vector potential method with a simplified 
boundary conditions of the antenna 􀆳s current . For common 
MIMO systems , the antennas are spaced far enough so that the 
mutual coupling is negligible , resulting in a diagonal imped ⁃
ance matrix . However , for HMIMO systems , the close spacing 
of the antennas introduces the strong mutual coupling inside 
the array and introduces off -diagonal entries in the impedance 
matrix . For instance , we consider two half -wavelength dipoles 
radiating at wavelength λ=cf0, where c is the speed of light , 
and the antenna spacing is denoted by δ. The configuration of 
the two dipoles is shown in Fig . 1.
The impedance of two antennas defined as ZTR is given 
▲Figure 1. Configuration of two dipoles . The two dipoles are separated 
by δ at their center , and the tilt angles with respect to the connecting 
line of their centers are γ and β (denoted as the blue area in the figure )β
δγ λ/2
35