ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies    Review
uploading videos to various social platforms , which makes pro ⁃
tecting certain groups of people , teenagers for example , from 
inappropriate content a big problem . At the same time , tradi ⁃
tional manual review is time -consuming and labor -intensive , 
making it difficult to process massive data . Machine vision 
technology enables the intelligent review , rating , processing 
and distribution of images , videos and social media in real ⁃
time. In this case , it is necessary to propose intelligent con ⁃
tent. Intelligent content can detect objects in videos through 
pre -trained neural networks , which automatically identify , 
classify , and grade them . For example , when a video contain ⁃
ing harmful information or dangerous scenes is played by the 
account of a teenager or a child , this technology can block the 
dangerous information , and only the identified adult audience 
is allowed to view these videos . Additionally , closed -circuit 
television (CCTV ) is widely used nowadays to prevent crime or 
provide useful information , such as area or traffic information . 
However , invasion of personal privacy has always been a big 
problem in the security field . There is a need to prevent mis ⁃
use of personal information in public and drone imagery . One 
solution is to automatically identify the private areas in the 
video , such as faces and license plates , and store their loca ⁃
tion information . Only when the viewer has the corresponding 
permission can the original image be displayed , otherwise the 
image in the private area will not be displayed , thus protecting 
the privacy of the parties involved .
3.2 Requirements of VCM Standard
For the above application scenarios , the VCM standard 
should meet the following key requirements :
1) Efficient compression performance . Compared with 
VVC , VCM improves the Bjontegaard Delta (BD)[10] gain by at 
least 30% in machine vision tasks , and supports various bit 
rates and delays . In addition , the complexity of the VCM 
should also be kept within a reasonable range .
2) Multi -task capability . The VCM can support video encod ⁃
ing for various types of visual analysis tasks , and the bit 
stream can be decompressed to perform various machine vi ⁃
sion tasks . In the VCM standard , different vision tasks can use 
the same module , for example , backbone and feature compres ⁃
sion modules can be shared , while different back -end net ⁃
works are used to implement different machine vision tasks .3) Various forms of input . Different types of sensor modules 
and processing performances vary in reality , and VCM needs 
to adapt to image/video signals generated by various sensors . 
The input signal includes monochrome , RGB , and YUV in the 
color format , and the input signal also includes non -visible 
light images such as infrared images and laser radars . VCM 
codec should adapt to various types of input .
3.3 Processing Pipeline
The current mainstream VCM solutions can be roughly di ⁃
vided into Track -1 and Track -2 according to the compressed 
content . The content compressed in Track -1 is the feature 
map. The input image or video will be sent into a backbone 
network to get the P -layer feature map , and then these feature 
maps will be compressed , transmitted , and reconstructed . Fi⁃
nally , the reconstructed feature maps are fed into different 
back -end machine task networks (such as object detection and 
instance segmentation network models ). The method of VCM 
Track -1 only compresses and reconstructs the feature map in ⁃
stead of the original image or video , which means it does not 
take the visual requirements of human eyes into consideration . 
The flowchart of Track -1 is shown in Fig. 1(a), where the blue 
module extracts feature maps from the input video , and the 
green module implements machine vision tasks through fea ⁃
ture maps .
The content compressed in Track -2 is the original images or 
videos , and the processing flow of this method is consistent 
with that of the common method of compressing first and then 
analyzing the video . The reconstructed output will be sent to 
the machine vision module to perform corresponding tasks . 
The method of VCM Track -2 also aims to accomplish machine 
vision tasks , while additionally achieving reconstruction of the 
original input in the pixel domain . This approach provides the 
advantage of addressing the requirements of both human view ⁃
ing and machine vision analysis tasks simultaneously . It 
should be noted that the support for human eye consumption 
is not required by the VCM standard but an additional exten ⁃
sion. The flowchart of Track -2 is shown in Fig . 1(b).
4 Evaluation Framework
To compare the pros and cons of different schemes , an evalu ⁃
ation framework is needed to measure the performance of differ ⁃
▲Figure 1. Flowcharts of Track -1 and Track -2 VideoMachine analysis 
(Ppart 1)Feature 
conversionVideo encoder Video encoderFeature inverse 
conversionMachine analysis 
(Part 1)Machine analysis 
(Part 2)Feature Bitstream Feature Result
Result Bitstream Video Video
Video encoder Video encoderMachine analysis 
(Part 1)     (Part 2)(a) Track -1
(b) Track -2
65