ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Review   Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies
Recent Advances in Video Coding for Recent Advances in Video Coding for 
Machines Standard and TechnologiesMachines Standard and Technologies
ZHANG Qiang1,2, MEI Junjun1,2, GUAN Tao1,2, 
SUN Zhewen3, ZHANG Zixiang3, YU Li3
(1. State Key Laboratory of Mobile Network and Mobile Multimedia 
Technology , Shenzhen 518055 , China；
 2. ZTE Corporation , Shenzhen 518057 , China；
 3. Huazhong University of Science and Technology , Wuhan 430074 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401008
https : //kns .cnki.net/kcms/detail/ 34.1294 .TN.20240203 .1937 .002.html, 
published online February 5, 2024
Manuscript received : 2023 -07-02
Abstract : To improve the performance of video compression for machine vision analysis tasks , a video coding for machines (VCM ) standard 
working group was established to promote standardization procedures . In this paper , recent advances in video coding for machine standards 
are presented and comprehensive introductions to the use cases , requirements , evaluation frameworks and corresponding metrics of the VCM 
standard are given . Then the existing methods are presented , introducing the existing proposals by category and the research progress of the 
latest VCM conference . Finally , we give conclusions .
Keywords : video coding for machines ; VCM ; video compression
Citation  (Format 1): ZHANG Q , MEI J J , GUAN T , et al . Recent advances in video coding for machines standard and technologies [J]. ZTE 
Communications , 2024 , 22(1): 62–76. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401008
Citation  (Format 2): Q. Zhang , J. J. Mei, T. Guan , et al ., “Recent advances in video coding for machines standard and technologies ,” ZTE Com ⁃
munications , vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 62–76, Mar. 2024 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401008 .
1 Introduction
Vision is an important way for human beings to per ⁃
ceive the external environment . As a digital form of vi ⁃
sual information , video has become an indispensable 
part of everyone ’s daily life . With the explosive 
growth of video data , more and more video has been used for 
machine vision analysis in industrial or intelligent scenes , 
while only a small portion is watched by humans . With the 
continuous development of multimedia technology , machines 
process video more automatically and intelligently , and even 
interact with each other directly without human participation . 
Therefore , this type of communication is often referred to as 
machine -to-machine (M2M) communication .
Traditional video coding frameworks , such as H .264/Ad⁃
vanced Video Coding (AVC ), H.265/high efficiency video cod ⁃
ing (HEVC ), and H .266/Versatile Video Coding (VVC ), were 
developed for the Human Visual System (HVS ), achieving 
higher compression efficiency while maintaining good subjec ⁃
tive quality . The essence of achieving efficient compression is 
to remove as much redundancy as possible . For example , hu⁃
man eyes have a high perception of brightness and a low per ⁃ception of chroma , so the redundant chrominance information 
will be discarded appropriately during encoding . Human eyes 
are less sensitive to high -frequency information than to low -
frequency information , hence the high -frequency information 
can be compressed by transformation and quantization . In ad ⁃
dition , pixel values change little in adjacent space and time , 
therefore spatial and temporal redundancy can be removed 
through intra -frame and inter -frame prediction , respectively . 
However , while removing redundancy is effective for com ⁃
pressing visual information in human vision , it does not neces ⁃
sarily apply to machine vision . Traditional codecs are de ⁃
signed to compress images and videos in a way that exploits 
the physiological properties of human eyes , making the com ⁃
pression less perceptible to human viewers . However , in ma ⁃
chine vision task scenes , the compressed information will be 
provided to machines for consumption instead of humans . Ma⁃
chines do not possess the same visual characteristics as hu ⁃
mans , and therefore , there is a need to develop a new coding 
standard specifically tailored for machine vision tasks . The de ⁃
velopment of machine learning/deep learning and the wide ⁃
spread use of image and video sensors have led to massive 
data demands in various intelligent platforms , including the 
Internet of Things (IoT), Internet of Vehicles (IoV), video sur ⁃
veillance , and smart cities . In this era of AI -driven video intel ⁃
ligence , many researchers are exploring ways to achieve 
This work was partially supported by ZTE Industry -University -Institute 
Cooperation Funds .
62