ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies    Review
represents the output of the neural network , and positive/nega ⁃
tive represents the label in the ground truth .
The recall and precision of the given IoU threshold are de ⁃
fined as follows :
recall(TIoU) = TP()TIoU
TP()TIoU + FN()TIoU, (3)
precision(TIoU) = TP()TIoU
TP()TIoU + FP()TIoU. (4)
The neural network of detection or segmentation can pair 
the recall and precision values with specific IoU thresholds 
and different confidence levels . For each recall value  r in the 
pairs , we define p(r) as the maximum precision value in all 
precision values where the corresponding recall values are 
above the given recall value  r:
p(r) = max
r͂:r͂ ≥r precision(r͂). (5)
The average precision (AP) of a given category of an object 
is defined as the average value of p(r) for all recall values pro ⁃
vided by the neural network , which can characterize the area 
of the entire precision -recall (PR) curve . The mAP means the 
average AP of all categories . By default , mAP is equivalent to 
mAP@ 0.5, where 0.5 represents the threshold of IoU . In addi ⁃
tion, mAP@ [0.5∶ 0.95] represents the average mAP on differ ⁃
ent IoU thresholds (from 0.5 to 0.95, with a step size of 0.05).For object tracking , multiple object tracking accuracy 
(MOTA ) is used to measure the capability of the algorithm to 
continuously track the target , which can intuitively measure 
the performance of the tracker and is not affected by the accu ⁃
racy of the detector . The calculation formula of MOTA is :
MOTA=1-∑( ) FN + FP + IDsw
∑GT , (6)
where IDsw is the number of ID changes assigned by the real 
label during the tracking process . GT is ground truth , which 
represents the true value in the labels of all tracking targets in 
the current frame .
In traditional video encoding methods , to facilitate a fair 
comparison of compression performance , the bitrate is often 
converted to obtain the modified Bjontegaard delta bit -rate 
(BD -rate) under the same encoding quality . Similarly , this ap ⁃
proach can be adopted for machine vision coding , with a slight 
modification . Instead of using the original peak signal -to-noise 
ratio (PSNR ) metric to measure image quality , the accuracy 
rate, which serves as a performance measurement for machine 
vision tasks , can be used to calculate the BD rate . Similarly , 
the accuracy of machine vision tasks can be represented by 
BD -mAP or BD -MOTA , which shows the task ’s accuracy 
while maintaining a consistent bitrate .
4.4 Evaluation Pipeline
Fig. 2 shows the pipeline of the evaluation framework for 
▲Figure 2. Pipeline of VCM evaluation framework , where the dotted lines represent reconstruction quality assessment for human visionPSNR : peak signal -to-noise ratio     VCM : video coding for machines     VVC : versatile video coding PSNR : peak signal -to-noise ratio     VCM : video coding for machines     VVC : versatile video codingVideo BitstreamDecoded data for 
machines
Decoded video 
for humanVCM
decoderVCM
encoderTask -1
Object detection
Task -2
Object segmentation
Task -3
Object tracking
Task -n
Other machine taskEvaluate task -1 
performance
Evaluate task -2 
performance
Evaluate task -3 
performance
Evaluate task -n 
performance
BitrateCompute PSNR
PSNR
Compute rate -distortion
Compute bitrateBitrate
VVC/H .266
encoderVVC/H .266
decoderCompute PSNRPSNR
Decoded videoCompute rate -performanceTask -1 performance
Task -2 performance
Task -3 performance
Task -n performance
BitstreamCompute bitrate
Task -1
Object detectionEvaluate task -1 
performance
Evaluate task -2 
performance
Evaluate task -3 
performance
Evaluate task -n 
performanceTask -1 performance
Task -2 performance
Task -3 performance
Task -n performanceTask -2
Object segmentation
Task -3
Object tracking
Task -n
Other machine task
67