ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1SHEN Jiayu , YANG Jun , ZHU Chen , DENG Zhiji , HUANG Chongwen Special Topic   Near -Field Beam Training for Holographic MIMO Communications : Typical Methods , Challenges and Future Directions
the training time is proportional to the codebook size , result ⁃
ing in a very high training overhead . HMB training is at the 
logarithmic level with a training time of Q=BL=
O(BlogNxNz), which can significantly reduce the training 
overhead compared with exhaustive beam training . Based on 
the simulation results , we can initially judge the superiority of 
the hash beam training algorithm in terms of training overhead 
and accuracy .
We conduct practical testing of the near -field beam training 
algorithm in a scenario involving RIS -assisted mmWave com ⁃
munication . Fig. 9 shows the test scenario , where the hard ⁃
ware equipment for the transmitter and receiver consists of a 
software radio USRP X 410, a mmWave RF front -end, and a 
RIS, respectively . By applying the aforementioned algorithm , 
we are able to estimate the angle and distance from the RIS to 
the User , assuming that we have prior knowledge of the angle 
and distance from the BS to the RIS . Note that the codewords 
designed here are phase -encoded codewords for RIS , which is 
reasonable because large -scale RIS is also an application sce ⁃
nario for near -field communication under HMIMO . We veri ⁃
fied the effectiveness of the above near -field beam training 
method through real hardware tests . In the LabVIEW front 
panel of Fig . 10, the simple implementation of hash beam 
scanning is shown , which includes the RIS codebook for each 
time slot tested , the corresponding beam direction maps of the 
codebook , the polling results corresponding to different hash 
functions , and the merged polling results . Due to the limita ⁃
tions of the hardware equipment , it is currently not possible to 
verify the time complexity of comparing  the existing methods .
5 Research Challenges 
and Opportunities
The most crucial difference be ⁃
tween near -field beam training and 
far-field beam training lies in the 
change of search dimension and 
search space , which is also the chal ⁃
lenge of near -field beam training . 
The increase in the search dimen ⁃
sion and in the search space makes 
higher demands on the time com ⁃
plexity and convergence of the 
beam training algorithm . Due to the 
inherent unity of the problem , we 
can generalize possible future re ⁃
search directions in far -field beam 
training to near -field beam training . 
Also, possible research directions 
can be planned based on the char ⁃
acteristics of near -field communica ⁃
tion itself . In addition to the inde ⁃
pendent near -field and far -field beam training , there are also complex scenarios that require 
hybrid beam training when the user distance is unknown . The 
following are some potential future research directions and op ⁃
portunities .
1) Machine learning based beam training : By using ma ⁃
chine learning methods[35–36], learning the data and interact ⁃
ing with the environment continuously , a corresponding beam 
training method can be obtained . For example , it is possible[37] 
to use a database containing past beam measurements at a spe ⁃
cific location to determine the direction of non -line -of-sight 
(NLoS ) link beam formation . A deep learning network[38] is 
used to predict beam formation vectors using features that 
carry information about the surrounding environment . A multi -
armed bandit framework[39] is proposed which can train mul ⁃
tiple beam pairs in each attempt . In the multi -armed bandit 
▲Figure 9. RIS -assisted mmWave communication testbedRIS: reconfigurable intelligent surface
RIS: reconfigurable intelligent surface
▲Figure 10. Schematic diagram of the software interfaceBS32×32 RIS
User
RIS assisted communication scenarios 
hash multi -beam training Scan flag
Scan
RIS -beam pattern
RIS_pattern
Merge voting results1-Bit RIS codebook
RIS codebook
Voting results for different 
hash functionsElevation angle/degreeAzimuth angle/degreeBeam training
parameters
Vote number
Vote numberHash Vote arrayInput
Hash scan parameter
50