ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1YANG Yibing , LIU Ming , XU Rongtao , WANG Gongpu , GONG Wei Special Topic   Link Budget and Enhanced Communication Distance for Ambient Internet of Things
transmitter and the backscatter signal receiver are collocated 
in one device commonly referred to as a reader . A typical 
reader may communicate with multiple backscatter tags in the 
surrounding area . The popular EPC C 1G2 RFID system 
adopts this MBCS configuration .
In the downlink of MBCS , the reader broadcasts the RF car ⁃
rier signal and signaling information simultaneously . The RF 
carrier signal can be leveraged by the tag to transmit its infor ⁃
mation back to the reader . The signaling information is used to 
activate specific tags and deliver associated commands . More 
specifically , the tag will be awakened and decode the signal ⁃
ing. Depending on signaling from the reader , the tag transmits 
its own information by reflecting and modulating the RF car ⁃
rier signals[18]. Consequently , the reader performs signal pro ⁃
cessing to the received backscatter signal to retrieve the tag in ⁃
formation . It is worth noting that the backscattered signals that 
carry the tag information suffer from the power attenuation of 
both downlink and uplink .
As shown in Fig 1(b), the BBCS consists of three compo ⁃
nents : a backscatter reader , a tag , and an RF carrier source . In 
comparison with MBCS , BBCS separates the RF carrier source 
functionality from the backscatter signaling and information 
transceiver . This can not only offer flexibility to the practical 
deployment but improve the signal strength at the reader . The 
backscatter signal received by the reader also undergoes the 
path loss of both uplink and downlink . Whereas , since the RF 
carrier source and the reader are not necessarily collocated 
and the former can be close to the tag , the incident signal 
power at the tag antenna in BBCS can be higher than that in 
MBCS .
Instead of generating an active RF signal in traditional wire ⁃
less communication systems , the tag in MBCS and BBCS con ⁃
trols and changes the load impedance of the antenna to modu ⁃
late the incident carrier signals . This yields the RF carrier re ⁃
flected from the tag antenna in an alternating manner . The tag 
can encode its information by properly controlling the chang ⁃
ing pattern of the reflected signal . The reader , on the other 
hand , can retrieve the information from the tag by observing 
the variation of the backscatter signal .
Let Za denote the complex tag antenna impedance of the tag antenna . The reflection coefficient of the tag antenna can be 
expressed as :
Γ=Zc-Z*
a
Zc+Za , (1)
where  Zc is the complex load impedance . When  Γ=0 (Zc=
Z*
a), it is called the impedance matching state or the imped ⁃
ance absorption state , and the tag does not generate any re ⁃
flected signals . When Γ≠0, the tag modulates the imped ⁃
ance of load to alter the reflection coefficient , thereby causing 
changes in the amplitude and phase of the reflected signals . 
This process is known as the impedance modulation , and the 
alteration of the reflected signal is detectable and decodable 
into data by the reader .
The process of impedance modulation is analogous to target 
identification in radar systems , where the radar cross section 
(RCS) serves as a metric to quantify the target ’s ability to re ⁃
flect radar waves . By considering the tag as the target for as ⁃
sessing its reflective capability , we can express the tag an ⁃
tenna RCS[19] as follows :
σi=λ2Gtag2
4π|Γi-As|2
, (2)
where λ is the wavelength and Gtag is the tag antenna gain . 
Tag RCS affects the field backscattered from a loaded an ⁃
tenna RCS . It can be divided into load -dependent and load -
independent components . The subscript i indicates that the 
load Zci is connected to the tag antenna , corresponding to the 
reflection coefficient Γi. For example , when there are only 
two load states , i=1 is for the tag information bit “0” and i=
2 is for the tag information bit “1”. As corresponds to the 
structural mode of the tag antenna , which is a load -
independent antenna characteristic . Its value is complex , in 
general , and depends on the geometry and materials used for 
the antenna construction .
The tag modulates its information by changing the RCS , 
and the modulated backscatter signal is proportional to the dif ⁃
ference of tag RCS (Δσ). Furthermore , the magnitude of Δσ is 
shown as below .
Δσ=λ2Gtag2
4πα|Γ1-Γ2|2
, (3)
where the coefficient α depends on the tag ’s 
modulation system . When the duty cycle of 
the tag’s square -wave modulated signal is 
50%, we can have α=1/4[20].
3 Link Budget
3.1 Downlink Budget
In the downlink communication , the reader ▲Figure 1. Two backscatter communication systems : (a) monostatic backscatter communi ⁃
cation system and (b) bistatic backscatter communication systemCarrier signal
Backscattered signal
Reader Tag
(a)G ddownGtag
dupRF carrier source
Reader Tag
(b)
18