ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1SHEN Jiayu , YANG Jun , ZHU Chen , DENG Zhiji , HUANG Chongwen Special Topic   Near -Field Beam Training for Holographic MIMO Communications : Typical Methods , Challenges and Future Directions
multibeam covering/not covering the best direction is approxi ⁃
mated by (ignoring receiver noise and any inter -beam interfer ⁃
ence) Pk(1,b*
k) and 0, the binary decision threshold for the re ⁃
ceived power is set as
P()th
k≜(Pk(1,b*
k)+0)/2=Pk(1,b*
k)/2. (12)
It is used to determine whether the optimal beam direction 
is included by B(r,bk(r)). Thus , for each r∈{2,3,…,log2M+
1}, combined with the binary decision of Î
k(r-1), the new 
candidate direction for the r-round is determined as follows
Î
k(r)=
ì
í
îïï
ïï    Î
k(r-1)∩B(r,bk(r)),  if Pk(r, b)≥P()th
k,
    Î
k(r-1)∖B(r,bk(r)),  if Pk(r, b)<P()th
k,  ∀k∈K
.(13)
3.3.2 Hashing Multi -Beam Training
To address the challenges of high complexity and low iden ⁃
tification accuracy in the aforementioned beam training tech ⁃
niques , particularly in many -to-many near -field communica ⁃
tion scenarios , an efficient hashing multi -beam (HMB ) train ⁃
ing scheme is proposed .
Firstly , we discuss how to generate HMB . HMB training le ⁃
verages the structure of the sparse Fourier transform and se ⁃
lect codewords from the single -beam codebook C to form 
multi -beams . Define the universe of keys with a total order as  
U=0,1,…,NC-1, where NC is the total number of codewords 
in the codebook . The hash function is denoted as h: U→T, 
where T=0,1,…,B-1 represents the set of interpreted hash 
values . The parameter B signifies the number of available 
hash values . In this framework , the universe of keys remains 
fixed , and the HMB method randomly selects hash functions 
from a family H=h1,h2,…,h|H| of hash functions . Here , |H| 
represents the number of distinct functions present in the fam ⁃
ily H. Fig. 4 illustrates the process of two times hashing , 
where the codewords representing 16 different directions are 
uniformly hashed into 4 multi -beams . Each multi -beam covers 
a total of NC/B=4 different directions .
Moreover , the proposed method involves joint design of the 
response of all antennas to generate the multi -beam codebook 
C͂ for training , which offers enhanced performance compared 
with the simple antenna partitioning approach .
The training process in this method consists of two phases : 
the scanning phase and the voting phase . During the scanning 
phase , a total of L rounds of hashing mapping are performed to 
accurately train the beams . In each round , the BS randomly se ⁃
lects a distinct hash function from the family  H. Simultane ⁃
ously , the BS transmits training symbols using its designed 
multi -beam codeword . This approach significantly reduces the 
complexity compared with traditional methods that require al ⁃
ternate scanning of all BSs . By using the hash functions and transmitting training symbols with the designed codewords , 
the scanning phase achieves accurate beam training while 
minimizing the number of time slots required . Specifically , B 
hash functions are randomly selected from the family H over L 
rounds , resulting in a total of Q=BL time slots needed for the 
scanning phase . During these time slots , the BS transmits 
training symbols with the corresponding multi -beam code ⁃
words , resulting in Q received signal power measurements .
Following the scanning phase , the voting phase is carried 
out to align the signals from different BSs . Since the signals 
from multiple BSs are superimposed , a demultiplexing algo ⁃
rithm and the voting mechanism are then employed to sepa ⁃
rate the signals from each BS .
Specifically , by sorting the power measurements in descend ⁃
ing order , the soft decision assigns the L time slots with the 
((k-1)L+1)-th to kL-th largest values in the received signal 
power to the k-th strongest BS mk. Thus , the time slot qmk=
arg max(k-1)L+1:kL descend(P) is considered to contain the 
aligned beam direction between the BS mk and the user . This 
step distinguishes the received signal power of different BSs . 
Afterward , based on the demultiplexed time slot qmk, the next 
step is to vote on the directions in the multi -beams used in the 
qmk-th time slot . The direction that receives the highest number 
of votes is considered the correctly aligned direction for BS mk.
Fig. 5 illustrates an example of the voting process in a sce ⁃
nario involving two BSs . The received signal power values are 
known and arranged in descending order . The time slots with 
the first L highest received signal power is highlighted in orange , 
▲Figure 4. Process of two times hashing1st hash 2nd hash
(a) (d)
(b) (e)
(c) (f)Bucket # 1 Bucket # 2
Bucket # 3 Bucket # 4Bucket # 1 Bucket # 2
Bucket # 3 Bucket # 4
BS BS
Direction = # 1 → #16 Direction = # 1 → #16
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11 12 13  14 15 16 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11 12 13  14 15 16
1
6
9
132
8
12
163
5
10
154
7
11
144
8
10
132
5
9
141
6
11
163
7
12
15z
y
xz
y
xz
xyz
xyz
xy
xyz z
xyz
xyz
xy
xyz
46