ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHAO Yaqiong , KE Hongqin , XU Wei , YE Xinquan , CHEN Yijian RIS -Assisted Cell Free MIMO : A Survey    Review
and future directions are pointed out in Section 5 before the 
concluding remarks in Section 6.
2 Key Technologies for Cell -Free MIMO 
Systems
In this section , we introduce the main technologies of CF 
MIMO for 5G and beyond in terms of two communication pro ⁃
tocols , i.e., time division duplexing (TDD ) and frequency divi ⁃
sion duplexing (FDD ). More specifically , we emphasize the im ⁃
portance of channel estimation , transmit precoding and power 
control , synchronization , and phase calibration in CF MIMO 
systems . These techniques differ from those used in traditional 
massive MIMO systems when considering the distributed an ⁃
tenna configurations and practical fronthaul constraints . These 
differences play an important role in the system implementa ⁃
tion and parameter design .
2.1 Channel Estimation
Channel estimation plays a vital role in transmit beamform ⁃
ing and signal detection , as it helps suppress inter -user inter ⁃
ference and improve the network capacity . Based on different 
communication protocols , such as TDD and FDD , various 
channel estimation techniques have been applied to CF 
MIMO systems .
Under TDD protocols , existing works mainly focus on the 
pilot -based channel estimation technique . Specifically , users 
send orthogonal pilot sequences of length τp to all the APs as 
shown in Fig . 3, and the APs then estimate the corresponding 
user channel according to different criteria after receiving the 
training signals[20]. Typical criteria include the least square 
(LS) method , the minimum mean square error (MMSE ) 
method , the maximum likelihood (ML) method , and so on .
For FDD systems with channel non -reciprocity , the channel 
estimation problem needs more attention because the feed ⁃
back overhead of channel state information (CSI) scales lin ⁃
early with the number of RISs and APs . To solve this issue , 
the angle -reciprocity principle of the multipath components is 
utilized , which assumes that if the gap between uplink and 
downlink frequencies is less than several GHz , the uplink 
angle -of-arrival and downlink angle -of-departure are similar 
and the large -scale fading components remain un ⁃
changed[21–23].
CF MIMO is essentially a single -cell massive MIMO sys ⁃tem, with antennas distributed over a wide geographic area[24]. 
As a result , the joint channel from the AP to the user is 
strongly correlated in space , with some APs being closer to the 
user than others . Therefore , spatial correlation between differ ⁃
ent APs can be used for channel estimation in CF MIMO , re⁃
ducing pilot and improving estimation efficiency when com ⁃
pared with traditional MIMO channel estimation .
2.2 Transmit Precoding and Power Control
In the transmission phase , the APs utilize the estimated 
channel coefficients in the channel estimation phase to per ⁃
form data precoding and power control . In CF MIMO systems , 
distributed APs are connected to a CPU via the dedicated fron ⁃
thaul link for payload data and power control coefficients ex ⁃
change . For this reason , a low -complexity distributed precod ⁃
ing technique is suggested . The most commonly used precod ⁃
ing schemes are maximum -ratio transmit precoding[5] and con ⁃
jugate precoding[13]. In both the schemes , the APs perform 
transmit precoding locally in a distributed manner , reducing 
the burden of CPU . However , since these distributed signal 
processing techniques only exploit their local CSI , they per ⁃
form badly for anti -interference . To reduce the inter -user inter ⁃
ference and further improve the system performance , some 
centralized precoding techniques , e.g., zero -forcing (ZF) pre⁃
coding and MMSE precoding , are advocated at the cost of an 
increased fronthaul burden[6, 21]. This is because the prerequi ⁃
site to implementing centralized precoding is the availability 
of all related channels at the CPU . In general , the optimal 
transmit precoding scheme should strike a balance between 
the fronthaul traffic and the network .
Different from the above precoding techniques in TDD sys ⁃
tems, angle -based precoding schemes are more commonly 
used in FDD protocols . Specifically , these angle -based precod ⁃
ing techniques use the estimated multi -path components such 
as the large -scale fading factors and Angel -of-Arrival (AoA), 
along with the angle reciprocity principle , to determine the 
transmit vectors according to different precoding options , e.g., 
the angle -based MMSE precoding , the angle -based conjugate 
precoding , and the angle -based ZF precoding[21, 25].
Advanced power control is pivotal for enhancing the net ⁃
work capacity or QoS and simple equal power allocation may 
result in poor system performance . A simple but efficient way 
to perform power control is to allocate power to different users 
at each AP proportional to the corresponding channel gain , 
which has been used by many papers that aim at improving 
achievable data rates[13, 26]. On the other hand , to provide uni ⁃
formly good service for different users , the max -min power 
control technique is suggested[27–28]. By maximizing the mini ⁃
mum spectral efficiency of all users under the constraints of 
per -AP transmit power , all users have almost equal spectral ef ⁃
ficiency with max -min power control . In FDD systems , the 
above power control techniques , namely equal power , water -
filling power , and max -min power allocation techniques , can 
▲Figure 3. Pilot and data transmission under time division duplexing 
(TDD ) communication protocolUL training DL transmission UL transmission
τp τd τu
DL: downlink      UL : uplink
79