ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1CAO Xinghan , YIN Huarui , YOU Changsheng Near -Field Wireless Power Transfer , Sensing and Communication with Bessel Beams    Special Topic
NearNear --Field Wireless Power TransferField Wireless Power Transfer ,,  
Sensing and Communication with Sensing and Communication with 
Bessel BeamsBessel Beams
CAO Xinghan1, YIN Huarui1, YOU Changsheng2
(1. University of Science and Technology of China , Hefei 230026 , 
China；
 2. Southern University of Science and Technology , Shenzhen 518055 , 
China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401007
https ://kns .cnki.net/kcms/detail/ 34.1294 .TN.20240308 .1551 .004，published 
online March 11, 2024
Manuscript received : 2024 -01-19
Abstract : The Bessel beam , characterized by its unique non -diffracting properties , holds promising applications . In this paper , we provide a 
detailed introduction and investigation into the theory and research of the Bessel beam , with a special focus on its generation and applications 
in the near -field region . We provide an introduction to the concepts , properties , and foundational theories of the Bessel beam . Additionally , 
the current study on generating Bessel beams and their applications is categorized and discussed , and potential research challenges are pro ⁃
posed in this paper . This review serves as a solid foundation for researchers to understand the concept of the Bessel beam and explore its po ⁃
tential applications .
Keywords : Bessel beams ; near -field; non -diffractive beams ; beam synthesis technology
Citation  (Format 1): CAO X H , YIN H R , YOU C S . Near -field wireless power transfer , sensing and communication with Bessel beams [J]. ZTE 
Communications , 2024 , 22(1): 53–61. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401007
Citation  (Format 2): X. H. Cao, H. R. Yin, and C . S. You , “Near -field wireless power transfer , sensing and communication with Bessel beams ,” 
ZTE Communications , vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 53–61, Mar. 2024 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202401007 .
1 Introduction
The next generation of mobile communication technology 
is advancing towards higher frequency bands[1]. Mean ⁃
while , new concepts such as the Internet of Everything 
(IoE) and dense networking are considered as the future 
direction of mobile communications[2]. These trends collectively 
imply that devices will communicate over shorter wavelengths 
in closer proximity , shifting the challenges of communication 
and sensing from the far -field region to the near -field region[3]. 
One of the significant differences between the far -field region 
and near -field region is that both angle and distance simultane ⁃
ously affect signal transmission between transmitting and re ⁃
ceiving devices . As a result , more factors need to be precisely 
considered when modeling signals[4]. This presents new opportu ⁃
nities and challenges for the design of beamforming .
The Bessel beam , as a type of beam confined to the near -field 
region , was first introduced by DURNIN et al . in 1987[5]. Start ⁃
ing from the Helmholtz equation in free space , a non -singular 
solution , namely , the Bessel beam , was proposed for describing 
a non -diffracting scalar field , in which “non -diffracting ” means 
that the intensity pattern of the beam in a transverse plane re ⁃
mains unchanged along the propagation direction and the term 
“Bessel” is derived from the matching of the expression of the 
beam with Bessel functions . The Bessel beam exhibits unique and intriguing non -diffracting and self -healing properties , en⁃
abling it to maintain a stable intensity and lateral shape along 
the propagation direction . Additionally , the Bessel beam exhib ⁃
its a series of excellent properties , including a small main lobe 
size, great directionality , high intensity , and long depth of focus , 
making it a competitive candidate for various applications . How ⁃
ever, an ideal Bessel beam carries infinite energy and requires 
an infinite generation aperture , which is physically unattain ⁃
able. In practical applications , Bessel beams with finite energy 
can only be generated on truncated apertures , which we refer to 
as “pseudo -Bessel beams ”. The propagation distance of such 
beams is limited by the aperture size and axicon angle . Conse ⁃
quently , the generation of pseudo -Bessel beams is restricted to 
the near -field region . In this paper , the term “the Bessel beam ” 
mainly refers to “the pseudo -Bessel beam ”, and we no longer 
distinguish between these two concepts .
Due to the constraints imposed by their near -field characteris ⁃
tic, practically generated Bessel beams are often confined to 
very short distances . This has confined the study of Bessel 
beams primarily to experimental generation for a long time . 
There have been numerous attempts to generate Bessel beams 
in the fields of optics , acoustics , and microwaves . These studies 
explore methods for generating Bessel beams with different de ⁃
vices and materials , such as phase -shift surface antennas[6–7], 
53