ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1CAO Xinghan , YIN Huarui , YOU Changsheng Near -Field Wireless Power Transfer , Sensing and Communication with Bessel Beams    Special Topic
zmax=r/tanθ=r[(2π/αλ)2-1]12
,(5)
where θ=sin-1(αλ/2π) represents the traveling angle relative 
to the z-axis and R represents the radius of the aperture . In com ⁃
parison with the definitions of the reactive near -field and the ra ⁃
diative near -field, Eq. (5) appears to be independent of fre ⁃
quency . However , for practically generated Bessel beams , their 
frequency and axion angle are constrained . Generally speaking , 
the propagation distance of Bessel beams is smaller than the 
Rayleigh distance , and their range is closer to the radiation near -
field. Despite the limited propagation distance , the truncated 
Bessel beam still maintains excellent non -diffracting character ⁃
istics within the range of zmax. To investigate the field distribu ⁃
tion and characteristics of the truncated Bessel beam in the 
near -field region , the scalar diffraction theory is adopted , i.e., 
the Rayleigh -Sommerfeld formula or the Fresnel diffraction inte ⁃
gral. The field at each point in free space is described as a 
weighted sum of the fields on the generating aperture . Accord ⁃
ing to the Rayleigh -Sommerfeld formula , the relationship be ⁃
tween the intensity of the truncated Bessel beam and the propa ⁃
gation distance is given in Fig . 3[18]. It can be observed that the main lobe intensity of the truncated Bessel beam undergoes 
some fluctuations and rapidly decreases beyond the limit dis ⁃
tance given by zmax. In addition , the angular spectrum theory can 
also be used to analyze the field distribution of truncated Bessel 
beams . As the research on the Bessel beam has advanced , more 
complex methods such as the vector wave method and leaky -
wave theory have been employed to analyze the effects of Bessel 
beams[19]. These methods , beyond the scope of this paper , pro⁃
vide additional insights into the characteristics of Bessel beams .
3 Generation of Bessel Beam
The generation of Bessel beams that are novel and distinctive 
structured beams has been a key area of research in this field . 
In this section , we categorize the research on generating Bessel 
beams into two types : based on the scalar wave theory and 
based on the vector wave theory . We provide an insightful re ⁃
view and discussion of these studies .
3.1 Based on Scalar Wave Theory
The earliest concept of the Bessel beam was derived based on 
the scalar wave theory . Consequently , most of the early research 
on generating Bessel beams originated from the scalar wave 
theory . The objective of these studies can be summarized to 
achieve a specific phase distribution on the generation aperture 
that satisfies the requirements for the Bessel beam : the phase at 
any point on the aperture linearly increases with its distance 
from the center , as shown in the following equation :
φ=k0x2+y2sinθ, (6)
where k0=2π/λ, and θ represents the axion angle . Metasur ⁃
faces possess the excellent capability to continuously alter the 
phase distribution . In Ref . [9], a transmission metasurface was 
designed for the generation of the Bessel beam , enabling beam 
steering by adjusting the size of the cells with great transmission 
efficiency . By altering the length of the annular grooves etched 
on the dielectric substrate to meet the phase distribution of Bes ⁃
sel beams in the generation aperture , a similar transmissive 
metasurface design can be found in Ref . [10].
In the field of optics , lenses are often used to manipulate the 
phase for the formation of Bessel beams . In Ref . [8], a planar 
half Maxwell fisheye lens and a planar flat lens were combined 
to generate Bessel beams . The former is employed to transfer 
the cylindrical like surface waves generated by a point source 
to plane surface waves , while the latter achieves the modulation 
of the required phase distribution for the Bessel beam on the 
plane wave by altering the refractive index distribution of the 
medium . Such a dual -lens design reduces the demands on the 
refractive index and thickness of the plane lens surface . By em ⁃
ploying gradient index metamaterials , a broadband lens capable 
of transforming spherical beams emitted from feed into Bessel 
beams was proposed in Ref . [12], operating in the frequency 
band of 12–18 GHz . Similar to the principles of lenses , phase -
 ▲Figure 3. Central peak intensity of a truncated Bessel beam[18]Central peak intensity of Bessel beam
Relative intensity
z/m
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.21.5
1.0
0.5
▲Figure 2. Illustration of a truncated Bessel beamShadowShadowShadow
r
θ
zmax=r/tanθ
55