ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LU Zhizheng , HAN Yu , JIN Shi Impacts of Model Mismatch and Array Scale on Channel Estimation for XL -HRIS -Aided Systems    Special Topic
cially , in order to decrease the hardware cost , only a few ac ⁃
tive elements are employed in the XL -HRIS , which will also 
bring challenges to full dimensional channel estimation . Many 
studies have been conducted on near -field channel estima ⁃
tion[30–32]. Ref. [30] considered a near -field channel scenario , 
where the channel was modeled by a spherical wave model . In 
Ref. [31], a large lens antenna array -aided system was consid ⁃
ered, which can estimate the position parameters and locate 
UE precisely . Ref. [32] considered a spherical wave channel 
model and proposed an iteration -based algorithm based on the 
Newtonized orthogonal matching pursuit (NOMP ) algorithm[33], 
which can detect the channel parameters and reconstruct the 
near -field channel accurately . Nevertheless , most studies on 
channel estimation in RIS -aided systems still estimate the 
channel parameters based on the planar wave channel model 
and ignore the differences between the realistic spherical 
wave channel model and the assumed planar wave channel 
model . This can lead to the estimation error lower bound (LB) 
analysis being lower than the true results . There are few stud ⁃
ies on the impacts of the array scale and the variation between 
the assumed channel model and realistic channel model on 
channel estimation accuracy .
In this paper , to study the impacts of the large array scale 
on channel estimation accuracy and communication perfor ⁃
mance , an estimation error LB of channel parameters is de ⁃
rived , which considers the accuracy degradation caused by the 
channel model mismatch between the realistic spherical chan ⁃
nel wave model and the assumed planar wave channel model . 
A true LB result is obtained and the impacts of system param ⁃
eters on LB , such as the distance , the number of elements and 
transmitted power , are analyzed . Moreover , the impacts of the 
large array scale and channel model mismatch on the SE per ⁃
formance are evaluated , and the simulation results are given . 
To reduce the computational complexity and pilot overhead in 
the XL -RIS -aided system , a unique XL -HRIS architecture 
that uses active and passive elements simultaneously is intro ⁃
duced in this paper . A decoupled channel estimation algo ⁃
rithm , which estimates the angle and distance parameters 
separately , is also considered .
The rest of the paper is organized as follows . In Section 2, the 
system model , signal model , and near -field channel estimation 
algorithm under the proposed XL -HRIS architecture are intro ⁃
duced . In Section 3, an LB that considers the channel model 
mismatch is defined and derived , and the impacts of the large 
array scale on LB and SE are then studied . Section 4 shows the 
simulation results regarding the impacts of the array scale on 
parameter estimation accuracy and communication perfor ⁃
mance . Finally , the conclusions are presented in Section 5.
2 Proposed XL -HRIS -Aided System
2.1 System Model
An XL -HRIS -aided time division duplexing (TDD ) system is proposed in this paper , as shown in Fig. 1. In this system , 
the BS is equipped with an M-element uniform linear array 
(ULA ), while the UE only has one single antenna . The carrier 
frequency is denoted as fc, and the wave length is λc=cfc, 
where c denotes the speed of light . The spacing between adja ⁃
cent antennas is the half of the wave length . However , the 
channel between the UE and the BS is blocked by obstacles , 
which can cause a serious damage on the communication per ⁃
formance . Therefore , an XL -HRIS is introduced to provide an 
additional link to enhance the communication quality .
This paper proposes a unique XL -HRIS architecture , as 
shown in Fig . 2, to decrease the computational complexity and 
pilot overhead in the decoupled separate channel estimation 
scheme , and to improve system communication performance . 
The architecture is employed with an N-elements ULA and 
the spacing between adjacent elements is d=λc 2. Nact≪N 
active elements exist in the XL -RIS, which can be divided 
into two parts . One part is an Nsub-element subarray ULA 
(sULA ) at the center of the whole array , which is called the 
core subarray (c-subarray ). The other part is composed of Nran 
active elements , which are randomly distributed in the ULA , 
forming a random subarray (r-subarray ). We have Nact=Nsub+
▲Figure 1. Proposed XL -HRIS -aided system modelRIS: reconfigurable intelligence surface
UE: user equipment
XL-HRIS : extremely large -scale hybrid reconfigurable intelligence surface
▲Figure 2. Proposed XL -HRIS architecture with active c -subarray and 
active r -subarray . Other elements are passiveXL-HRIS : extremely large -scale hybrid reconfigurable intelligence surfaceXL-HRIS
…
BSRIS -BS
Obstacles
UEUE -RIS
XL-HRIS architecture
r-subarrayc-subarray
Passive 
elementActive 
element
25