ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1CAO Xinghan , YIN Huarui , YOU Changsheng Near -Field Wireless Power Transfer , Sensing and Communication with Bessel Beams    Special Topic
Other works primarily achieve this through leaky waveguides . 
In 2011 , leveraging the completeness and orthogonality of circu ⁃
lar waveguide modes , thin circular loop antennas placed coaxi ⁃
ally inside the waveguide were used to generate Bessel beams in 
the microwave domain[26]. The study specifically discussed the 
TE polarization . ETTORRE et al . expanded the possibilities of 
generating Bessel beams through leaky -wave modes . They pro ⁃
posed the method of generating Bessel beams through a leaky 
radial waveguide using vector potential analysis in Ref . [25] and 
experimentally validated it in Ref . [27] (Fig. 6). The proposed 
structure can generate arbitrary zeroth -order propagating Bessel 
beams at microwave and millimeter -wave frequencies . In Ref . 
[16], a TE -polarized Bessel antenna operating at 5.8 GHz , de⁃
signed by the principle of duality with the TM mode , was pro ⁃
posed using leaky -wave modes . Other studies can be found in 
Refs. [28] and [29], where a radial parallel plate waveguide 
(PPW ) loaded with annular slots operating at 30 GHz with longi ⁃
tudinal polarization and transverse polarization were proposed 
respectively . It is worth noting that , although the studies men ⁃
tioned above focus on the 3–30 GHz frequency range , the re ⁃
searchers in Refs . [25] and [27] have indicated that their pro ⁃
posed structures can also be applied to millimeter waves . In 
other frequency bands , such as acoustic waves , millimeter 
waves , terahertz , and optical waves , the research on generating 
Bessel beams can be found in Refs . [30–34], and their prin ⁃
ciples and methods are generally similar .
3.3 Research Challenges
Currently , the efficient and convenient generation of Bessel 
beams remains a topic of research in the field of Bessel beam 
studies . There are several research issues worth exploring . 
Firstly , reducing device complexity and enhancing versatility 
pose significant challenges in generating Bessel beams . As men ⁃
tioned earlier , the generation of Bessel beams requires precise 
phase control , which is currently difficult to achieve with exist ⁃
ing devices . Approaches such as using metasurfaces or lenses often involve the integration of multiple devices , leading to addi ⁃
tional costs . Furthermore , some phase -controlled designs neces ⁃
sitate highly intricate feed networks . Investigating how to synthe ⁃
size Bessel beams on existing antenna structures or easily scal ⁃
able devices is a research proposition worth exploring . Sec ⁃
ondly , it is worth investigating how to manipulate the character ⁃
istics of generated Bessel beams . For instance , altering the 
phase and intensity distribution on the generating aperture can 
change properties such as direction , depth of field , main lobe 
width , intensity distribution , and others . Lastly , research on gen ⁃
erating Bessel beams through vector wave theory is still in its 
early stages and deserves further exploration . In conclusion , the 
diffraction analysis and near -field characteristics of Bessel 
beams necessitate more refined antenna designs . In the future , 
antenna arrays with higher integration and continuous phase 
modulation capabilities are expected to address this issue .
4 Application of Bessel Beam
As mentioned earlier , the unique properties of Bessel beams , 
including non -diffractive characteristics , self -healing properties , 
a small main lobe size , great directionality , high intensity , and a 
long depth of focus , have sparked researchers 􀆳 interests in ex ⁃
Feed
▲Figure 6. Illustration of the Bessel beam leaky radial waveguide[25] 
and its experimental prototype[27]Ground plane ρρ1h εr1KρKρ
LW -modesImpedance 
sheetzmaxFresnel Zone
LW-radiation
boundaryεr2Region 2
LW
-radiationboundaryθ=sin-1(Re(kρ)/k2)
Region 1z
LW: leaky -wave
x
yz
▲Figure 5. A metasurface transforms a circularly polarized Gaussian 
beam into a vector Bessel beam with high efficiency[11]
57