ZTE Communications Guidelines for Authors
Remit of Journal
ZTE Communications  publishes original theoretical papers, research findings, and surveys on a broad range of communications 
topics, including communications and information system design, optical fiber and electro⁃optical engineering, microwave 
technology, radio wave propagation, antenna engineering, electromagnetics, signal and image processing, and power engineering. 
The journal is designed to be an integrated forum for university academics and industry researchers from around the world.
Manuscript Preparation
Manuscripts must be typed in English and submitted electronically in MS Word (or compatible) format. The word length is 
approximately 3 000 to 8 000, and no more than 8 figures or tables should be included. Authors are requested to submit mathematical 
material and graphics in an editable format.
Abstract and Keywords
Each manuscript must include an abstract of approximately 150 words written as a single paragraph. The abstract should not include 
mathematics or references and should not be repeated verbatim in the introduction. The abstract should be a self⁃contained overview 
of the aims, methods, experimental results, and significance of research outlined in the paper. Five carefully chosen keywords must 
be provided with the abstract.
References
Manuscripts must be referenced at a level that conforms to international academic standards. All references must be numbered 
sequentially intext and listed in corresponding order at the end of the paper. References that are not cited in⁃text should not be 
included in the reference list. References must be complete and formatted according to ZTE Communications  Editorial Style. A 
minimum of 10 references should be provided. Footnotes should be avoided or kept to a minimum.
Copyright and Declaration
Authors are responsible for obtaining permission to reproduce any material for which they do not hold copyright. Permission 
to reproduce any part of this publication for commercial use must be obtained in advance from the editorial office of ZTE 
Communications . Authors agree that a) the manuscript is a product of research conducted by themselves and the stated co⁃authors; 
b) the manuscript has not been published elsewhere in its submitted form; c) the manuscript is not currently being considered for 
publication elsewhere. If the paper is an adaptation of a speech or presentation, acknowledgement of this is required within the paper. 
The number of co⁃authors should not exceed five.
Content and Structure
ZTE Communications  seeks to publish original content that may build on existing literature in any field of communications. Authors 
should not dedicate a disproportionate amount of a paper to fundamental background, historical overviews, or chronologies that may 
be sufficiently dealt with by references. Authors are also requested to avoid the overuse of bullet points when structuring papers. 
The conclusion should include a commentary on the significance/future implications of the research as well as an overview of the 
material presented.
Peer Review and Editing
All manuscripts will be subject to a two⁃stage anonymous peer review as well as copyediting, and formatting. Authors may be asked 
to revise parts of a manuscript prior to publication.
Biographical Information
All authors are requested to provide a brief biography (approx. 100 words) that includes email address, educational background, 
career experience, research interests, awards, and publications.
Acknowledgements and Funding
A manuscript based on funded research must clearly state the program name, funding body, and grant number. Individuals who 
contributed to the manuscript should be acknowledged in a brief statement.
Address for Submission
http://mc03.manuscriptcentral.com/ztecom