ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1YANG Yibing , LIU Ming , XU Rongtao , WANG Gongpu , GONG Wei Link Budget and Enhanced Communication Distance for Ambient Internet of Things    Special Topic
trast, in BackCom systems , the information is delivered 
through RF signal reflection . Therefore , the backscatter sig ⁃
nals undergo a round -trip path loss , which requires a larger 
link budget . For example , the signal coverage of the ultra -high 
frequency (UHF ) radio frequency identification (RFID ) sys⁃
tem, namely Electronic Product Code Global Class 1 Genera ⁃
tion 2 (EPC C 1G2)[7], is at the level of roughly 10 m in practi ⁃
cal deployment , in comparison with coverage up to several 
hundred meters for typical cellular communication systems at 
the same frequency band with similar radiation power level . 
The communication range of BackCom could be further re ⁃
duced if higher communication rates are required .
The short coverage inevitably limits the application of Back ⁃
Com. Therefore , it is necessary to identify the major factors 
that restrict the communication range of BackCom systems 
and find corresponding effective solutions to boost its trans ⁃
mission capability . The major factors that constrain the com ⁃
munication distance may come from uplink or downlink . Ac⁃
cordingly , it is necessary to perform the link budget to calcu ⁃
late and compare the upper bound downlink and uplink com ⁃
munication distance .
Existing works have studied the link budget of BackCom 
mostly through theoretical analysis . Friis free -space formula 
was used to determine the theoretical upper bound communi ⁃
cation distance in Refs . [8–9]. The authors in Ref . [10] incor ⁃
porated more practical factors such as multipath propagation 
to derive more practical path losses of passive UHF tags . Four 
types of propagation models of BackCom were discussed in 
Ref. [11] and some insights into the link quality of BackCom 
transmission were provided .
Using the link budget , we can determine the power received 
at the tag and the reader . When the received power decreases 
to the sensitivity of the tag and the reader , we can calculate 
the upper bounds for the downlink and uplink communication 
distance . Next , comparing the two bounds , we can find the 
bottleneck of the BackCom , uplink or downlink . And the re ⁃
sult is that BackCom is mainly limited by the downlink . There ⁃
fore, we need to improve the downlink sensitivity . That is , en⁃
hancing the tag sensitivity can increase the communication 
range of BackCom systems .
Generally speaking , the overall sensitivity of the tag is de ⁃
termined by the envelope detection circuit and the compara ⁃
tor. The sensitivity of the envelope detection circuit is related 
to the forward voltage drop of the diode . In order to improve 
the sensitivity , the authors in Ref . [12] suggested that the en ⁃
velope detection circuit used diode -connected low positive 
channel Metal Oxide Semiconductor (PMOS ) transistors for 
low -voltage operation and less energy loss . Ref . [13] intro ⁃
duced a detector -first wake -up receiver (WuRx ) that used 
boundary condition -based envelope detector optimization , im⁃
proving sensitivity and performance while conserving power . 
The envelope detector described in Ref . [14] employed the 
threshold compensation technology to effectively mitigate the impact of the transistor ’s threshold voltage on demodulation 
sensitivity . A voltage doubler rectifier was proposed to im ⁃
prove the passive envelope detection of the tag , thereby en ⁃
hancing the tag sensitivity[15–16]. Unfortunately , when a 
multiple -stage voltage doubler rectifier is used , it is a chal ⁃
lenge to design and implement the RF circuit . Besides , using 
a multiple -stage voltage doubler rectifier will cause annoying 
parasitic parameters that may lead to a relatively slower rectifi ⁃
cation rate .
Actually , the factors that can affect the tag sensitivity may 
be the forward voltage drop of the diode , the sensitivity of the 
comparator , and the algorithm limit imposed by the adopted 
decoding scheme . In summary , the bottleneck that restricts 
the communication range remains unclear and the results 
have not been validated over practical hardware implementa ⁃
tions , which motivates our present work .
In this paper , we first derive the link budget of the BackCom 
transmission by taking into account practical factors including 
the impedance modulation mode , impedance matching , and po ⁃
larization mismatch . Using the more comprehensive and accu ⁃
rate link budget model , the uplink and downlink communica ⁃
tion ranges can be calculated with the nominal value of reader 
sensitivity and the measured tag sensitivity . It is found through 
the analysis that the key factor that sets the upper bound of our 
practical BackCom system is the capability of the envelope de ⁃
tection circuit of the downlink tags . To address this issue , we 
propose to incorporate a low -noise amplifier (LNA ) module to 
enhance the signal strength before envelope detection , which 
consequently improves tag sensitivity and increases the commu ⁃
nication distance of the downlink .
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows . Section 
2 introduces two communication systems based on backscat ⁃
ter, then describes the downlink signal receiving and the up ⁃
link reflection signal process of the tag , and derives the reflec ⁃
tion coefficient and radar cross section . In Section 3, firstly , 
the tag reflection coefficient and other parameters are mea ⁃
sured to calculate the sensitivity . Secondly , through the re ⁃
ceived power and sensitivity , the upper bound distance be ⁃
tween the upper and lower lines of the system is analyzed , and 
the upper bound of the system is obtained as the starting volt ⁃
age of the diode of the label envelope detection module . Fi⁃
nally , a low -noise power amplifier module is implemented in 
the receiving circuit of the tag . In Section 4, the performance 
improvement of the communication system is verified through 
theoretical and practical measurements . Section 5 concludes 
the paper .
2 Backscatter Communication Model
Backscatter communication systems can be classified into 
two categories : monostatic backscatter communication sys ⁃
tems (MBCS ) and bistatic backscatter communication systems 
(BBCS )[17], as shown in Figs . 1(a) and 1(b), respectively .
The MBCS in Fig . 1(a) illustrates that the RF carrier signal 
17