ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LIU Mengyu , ZHANG Yang , JIN Yasheng , ZHI Kangda , PAN Cunhua Towards Near -Field Communications for 6G: Challenges and Opportunities    Special Topic
fer greater path loss . As a result , most of the power of the sig ⁃
nal received by the user comes from those array elements 
with lower path loss . This phenomenon leads to the appear ⁃
ance of VRs . 2) Blockage : The large antenna size increases 
the possibility of obstacles between the user and some anten ⁃
nas. This obstruction prevents the user from receiving sig ⁃
nals from some sub -arrays which are blocked by obstacles , 
bringing the emergence of VRs .
Then , we can obtain the near -field channel considering the 
VRs[27–28]:
hnear=αe-j2π
λranear(r)⊙f(Φ)+∑
l=1L
βlanear(rl)⊙f(Φl),(16)
where Φ and Φl represent the index of the array that is visible 
to the user and the l-th scatterer , respectively , and f(Φ) de⁃
notes the vector of VRs , which is given by :
[f(Φ)]n={1, n∈Φ,
0, n∉Φ. (17)
Moreover , when the prior information about the actual envi ⁃
ronment is unknown , the user’s VR information can be mod ⁃
eled as a Markov process or birth and death process[29–30].
3 Challenges and Research Progress in Near -
Field Communications
In this section , we will present some challenging directions 
in near -field communication , including beam training , local ⁃
ization and transmission scheme design . For each challenge , 
we then provide a detailed literature review and the latest re ⁃
search progress .3.1 Beam Training for Near -Field Communications
3.1.1 Challenges
Codebook -based beam training intends to identify the opti ⁃
mal combination of transmitting and receiving beams for subse ⁃
quent data transmission . Most of the existing research on beam 
training has been conducted under the assumption of far 
field[31–34]. However , for next -generation communication sys ⁃
tems, the use of XL -MIMO techniques invalidates existing far -
field assumptions , making it inevitable to consider the near -
field model[14]. The change from far -field to near -field presents 
opportunities and challenges to beam training .
In the far -field domain , the codebook design only considers 
the angle domain information as shown in Fig. 4(a), where the 
angles are uniformly sampled . However , the Rayleigh distance 
that distinguishes the near field from the far field expands 
with the growth of the antenna array , necessitating the consid ⁃
eration of near -field effects[20]. Unlike the far field , the dis ⁃
tance information is added in the near -field domain codebook 
design , making the codebook dimension dramatically 
higher[17]. Therefore , it becomes crucial to investigate 
codebook -based beam training methods under the near -field 
domain to reduce overhead .
▲Figure 3. Illustration of spatial non -stationary propertyLoS: line -of-sight     NLoS : non -line -of-sight
▲Figure 4. Codebook for the far field and near field(a) Far -field codebook
(b) Near -field polar -domain codebookScattererNLoS pathLoS pathVisibility 
region
The n-th sampled 
angle
The n−1-th 
sampled angle
The n-th sampled 
point on the s-th 
ringThe s-th sampled 
ring
07