ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LU Zhizheng , HAN Yu , JIN Shi Special Topic   Impacts of Model Mismatch and Array Scale on Channel Estimation for XL -HRIS -Aided Systems
Nran. Each active element has two modes : active and passive . 
In the active mode , the active elements can receive and pro ⁃
cess the signal , and the XL -HRIS can estimate the channel be ⁃
tween the transmitter and the active elements at the ULA . In 
the passive mode , each element can only reflect the signal 
with a programmable phase shift . All other N-Nact elements 
in the ULA are passive elements , which can only operate in 
the passive mode .
2.2 Signal Model and Channel Model
The channel hR∈CN×1 between the transmitter and the 
ULA can be expressed as
hR=gwR(θ, r), (1)
where g denotes the complex gain ; θ is the azimuth angle of 
the receive signal at the center of the XL -HRIS ; r denotes the 
distance between the transmitter and the center of the XL -
HRIS . The steering vector can be expressed as
wR(θ, r)=éëejkc() r1-r,…, ejkc() rN-rùûT
, (2)
where kc=2πλc is the wave number ; rn denotes the distance 
from the transmitter to the n-th element at the ULA , n=
1,⋯, N, which can be expressed as
rn=r2-2rχndθ+χ2
nd2, (3)
where χn=n-() N+12. Assume that all the pilots are 
transmitted by the transmitter , and when the XL -HRIS is in 
the active mode , the receive signal ysub∈CNsub×1 at the c -
subarray can be denoted as
ysub=Phsub+zsub, (4)
where zsub is the additional Gaussian noise with 0 zero and σ2 
variance , and the channel between the UE and the c -subarray 
can be expressed as
hsub=gwsub(θ, r), (5)
where
wsub(θ, r)=é
ëêêêêejkc() rsub,1-r,…, ejkc()rsub,Nsub-rù
ûúúúúT
, (6)
where rsub, n denotes the distance from the transmitter to the n-th 
elem ent at the c -subarray , which can be denoted a s
rsub, n=r2-2rδndθ+δ2
nd2, (7)
where δn=n-() Nsub+12, for n=1,⋯, Nsub. Similarly , the 
channel between the UE and the r -subarray can be denoted as hran.
Considering that the aperture of the c -subarray is small compared to the whole ULA , the phase variations of the re ⁃
ceive signal among the c -subarray can be ignored . As a result , 
the channel can be simplified as the planar wave model , 
which can be denoted as
hsim=gasim(θ), (8)
where the simplified steering vector can be expressed as
asim(θ)=[e-jδ1kcdθ,⋯, e-jδNsubkcdθ]T
. (9)
Due to the large number of elements at the XL -HRIS , esti⁃
mation of the cascade channel between the UE and the BS has 
high computational complexity . Hence , a two -stage decoupled 
separate channel estimation scheme is proposed in this paper , 
in which the UE transmits pilots to the RIS firstly , while the 
RIS estimates the channel between the UE and the RIS 
through the two active subarrays . Then , the RIS reflects the 
signal to the BS , and the BS estimates the RIS -BS channel . 
Since the channel between the RIS and the BS is stable , it 
only needs to be estimated once at the beginning of the chan ⁃
nel correlation time . However , the channel between the UE 
and the RIS needs to be estimated frequently . This paper only 
focuses on the estimation of the UE -RIS channel .
As only part of elements at the XL -HRIS are active , the full 
dimensional UE -RIS channel estimation faces many chal ⁃
lenges . Due to the spatial sparsity of the UE -RIS channel , we 
only estimate the channel parameters through the active ele ⁃
ments in this paper , and then reconstruct the full dimensional 
channel . In the XL -HRIS -aided system , the computational 
complexity remains high due to the need to estimate more pa ⁃
rameters under the spherical wave model . Fortunately , the re ⁃
ceive signal of the c -subarray and that of the r -subarray in the 
proposed XL -HRIS architecture can be processed respec ⁃
tively . A decoupled estimation strategy is adopted to reduce 
the computational complexity . Firstly , the angle of arrival 
(AoA) parameter is estimated from the receive signal of the c -
subarray , and then the distance parameter is detected from the 
receive signal of the r -subarray . However , since the c -
subarray detects the AoA parameter based on the planar -wave 
model , which differs from the practical spherical -wave model , 
channel model mismatch can occur , which affects the estima ⁃
tion accuracy . In the next section , the impacts of the c -
subarray scale on the AoA parameter estimation accuracy will 
be analyzed , and an estimation error lower bound will be 
given . The influence of the estimation error on the system com ⁃
munication performance will be also studied .
3 LB and SE Analysis Under Model Mismatch
3.1 Problem Description
When the XL -HRIS is in the active mode , the receive sig ⁃
nal at the c -subarray can be denoted as
26