ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1YANG Yibing , LIU Ming , XU Rongtao , WANG Gongpu , GONG Wei Link Budget and Enhanced Communication Distance for Ambient Internet of Things    Special Topic
generates and broadcasts signaling that includes reflection in ⁃
dication information to activate the tag . Note that the signal 
strength is a critical parameter to evaluate the reliability of 
data transmission . Therefore we use effective isotropic radi ⁃
ated power (EIRP ), a value that measures the coverage range 
and communication capability of a wireless system . The trans ⁃
mitted EIRP of the reader can be expressed as :
EIRPt=PtG , (4)
where Pt represents the transmission power used by the 
reader , which indicates the actual power output from the trans ⁃
mitter to the antenna , and G is the gain of the reader antenna , 
which is the efficiency of the antenna relative to an ideal iso ⁃
tropic antenna . The higher the EIRP , the stronger the trans ⁃
mission capability of the system , allowing it to propagate over 
longer distances .
In a multipath environment , the path loss between the 
reader and the tag antennas can be written as[10]
Lp(d)=(λ
4πd)2|
|||||1+∑
n=1N
Γnd
dne-jk() dn-d|
|||||2
, (5)
where d is the length of the direct path , and dn is the length of 
the n-th path with a reflection coefficient of Γn. N is the total 
number of reflections .
The signal strength at the tag antenna location can be ob ⁃
tained from the transmitted EIRP and path loss as follows :
Ptag=EIRPtGtagβLp(ddown)=PtGGtagβLp(ddown), (6)
where β is the polarization mismatch , also known as polariza ⁃
tion isolation , which measures the degree of signal loss caused 
by polarization mismatch in signal transmission from the 
reader antenna to the tag antenna . Gtag is the gain of the tag an ⁃
tenna , and ddown is the downlink communication distance .
As shown in Fig . 2, the signal received from the tag antenna 
will go through the impedance matching circuit . Since the re ⁃
flection coefficient is usually not equal to 0, a small part of the 
signal will be reflected by the tag antenna . The signal that is eventually captured and processed by the signal reception cir ⁃
cuit of the tag is :
Ptag,  chip=Ptag(1-|Γ|2), (7)
where Γ is the reflection coefficient of impedance matching . 
The power reflection coefficient |Γ|2 shows the fraction of the 
maximum power available from the generator that is not deliv ⁃
ered to the load[8]. A well -designed impedance matching is of 
vital importance to the system performance . The impedance 
matching circuit is normally designed to achieve Γ=0 to 
maximize the signal reception .
After that , the received signal is processed by the envelope 
detection module for demodulation . It converts the received 
RF signal into a low -frequency envelope signal with varying 
amplitudes . The following comparison module calculates a 
threshold based on the long -term average value of the varying 
envelope , and determines the information carried on the enve ⁃
lope by comparing the instantaneous envelope with the thresh ⁃
old. Subsequently , the bi -level output is processed by the 
logic processing unit . Consequently , the tag extracts control in ⁃
formation such as the reflection rate and the modulation 
scheme from the decoded sequence . With this information , the 
tag specifies its working mode and prepares the signal trans ⁃
mission that will be carried out later .
3.2 Uplink Budget
In uplink communications , the tag modulates and reflects 
its information through impedance modulation . The reader pro ⁃
cesses the received reflected signal . The tag modulates and re ⁃
flects a modulated backscatter signal with differential EIRP 
(∆EIRP ). The backscattered power of the tag can be calcu ⁃
lated as ∆EIRP=S∆σ. The following equation exhibits a pro ⁃
portional relationship with the received power Ptag[21]:
∆EIRP
Ptag=S∆σ
SA=GtagK
 , (8)
where  K=α|Γ1-Γ2|2 represents the tag modulation loss 
factor . S is the power density of an electromagnetic (EM) wave 
BPSK : binary phase shift keying     PIE : pulse interval encoding
▲Figure 2. Typical functional diagram inside a tagAntenna impedance Za
AntennaImpedance 
matchingEnvelope 
detectionAmplitude
comparisonPIE
decodingSignaling
extraction
Load impedance Zc1
Load impedance ZcnRF switchReflecting sensing 
dataReflection mode 
(BPSK . . . )
Logic processing unit Impedance modulation
19