ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Review   Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies
the VCM standard . The encoding and decoding processes of 
using VVC and VCM codecs are roughly similar . They both 
send the video to the encoder to compress it into a code 
stream , decode the code stream , and send it to different ma ⁃
chine vision tasks to obtain the performance of different tasks . 
However , in machine consumption , the code stream size and 
machine vision task performance are evaluated , and the de ⁃
coded data of the code stream are not necessarily restored to 
the original input , as long as the code rate is reduced while en ⁃
suring task performance . In the method for human consump ⁃
tion, the code stream size and the quality of the reconstructed 
video are evaluated , and the code stream needs to be restored 
and reconstructed for humans to watch .
4.5 Anchor Generation
In an image/video encoding process , the original input is 
usually scaled to a smaller resolution (100%, 75%, 50% and 
25% of the original size ) before compression and scaled back 
to the original resolution . In the process of anchor generation , 
the input image/video will be cropped by down -sampling , then 
compressed and decompressed by VTM[22], using up -sampling 
methods to restore the original input . After that , it will be sent 
to the task network to perform machine vision tasks and calcu ⁃
late the accuracy with ground truth . Among them , the open -
source software FFmpeg 4.2.2[23] is used for the up -down sam ⁃
pling and format conversion of the image . In addition , for the 
case where the zoom ratio is 100%, instead of directly input ⁃
ting the original image , padding is performed to fill the edge .
5 Proposals for VCM Standard
Existing methods for machine vision coding can be roughly 
divided into two technical approaches : Track -1 and Track -2. 
The methods of VCM Track -1 are feature map coding methods 
while the methods of VCM Track -2 compress videos first and 
then reconstruct them as the input of the machine vision tasks . 
The representative methods of these two approaches are intro ⁃
duced in this section . In addition , this chap ⁃
ter will elaborate on the performance results 
comparison between different Track -1 meth ⁃
ods and the standardization of the Track -2 
framework .
5.1 Methods for Track -1
The methods of VCM Track -1 utilize the 
backbone network to extract feature maps 
from images or videos , which are then com ⁃
pressed , transmitted , and reconstructed be ⁃
fore being sent to the back -end analysis net ⁃
work for machine vision tasks . This type of 
compression method only compresses the 
feature maps required for machine vision 
tasks . The primary advantage of this 
method is its capability to significantly re ⁃duce the number of data that need to be transmitted . However , 
it cannot realize the reconstruction of the original input signal . 
These methods can be mainly divided into the following cat ⁃
egories in terms of specific implementation .
5.1.1 Feature Map Rearragement and Compression by VTM
VVC uses traditional coding methods such as transform and 
quantization to compress images/videos , and the feature map 
can be regarded as a sequence of images to some extent . 
Therefore , an intuitive idea is to rearrange the obtained fea ⁃
ture maps , and then treat them as ordinary images for compres ⁃
sion and transmission through the traditional codec VVC . The 
feature map with 256 channels was regarded as 256 images in 
Ref. [24], where they were stitched , rearranged , and then 
quantized into 10-bit YUV 4∶0∶0 grayscale images , using 
VTM for compression . There might be not only spatial redun ⁃
dancy but also temporal redundancy between feature maps , 
and a method was proposed for reordering based on the gradi ⁃
ent between feature map channels[25]. Using the spatial -
priority assignment and temporal -priority allocation strategy 
for feature maps reduces BPP while maintaining mAP perfor ⁃
mance . The schematic diagram is shown in Fig . 3, where the 
feature maps of 256 channels are rearranged by the method of 
space priority and time priority , which explores the spatial re ⁃
dundancy and temporal redundancy of feature maps , taking 
both of them into account to achieve efficient feature map com ⁃
pression .
This kind of method is relatively simple , intuitive and easy 
to implement . The feature map can be easily converted into a 
grayscale image for storage . The process of compression , trans ⁃
mission and reconstruction is also accomplished by existing 
codec software , without complicated convolution operation or 
model training process . However , since the data volume of the 
feature map is much larger than that of the original image , and 
there is no obvious advantage in using VTM to compress the 
feature map compared to directly compressing the input image/
▲Figure 3. Spatial -priority and temporal -priority allocation , where the numbers in the dia ⁃
mond blocks represent the feature map numbers , and the arrows represent the rearrange ⁃
ment order#1 #2 #3 #4 ……
#60 ……
#256
(b) Temporal -priority allocation (a) Spacial -priority allocation
68