ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Review   Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies
chine (DCM ) intelligence frameworks was jointly proposed 
by CESI and related enterprises in September 2020 . The 
DCM group primarily elucidates the fundamental content of 
machine vision coding , organizes the technical requirements 
and application scenario of machine vision coding , outlines 
the future development direction of machine vision coding , 
and proposes potential technical routes for machine vision 
coding .
In this paper , we will mainly introduce and analyze the pro ⁃
posed proposals during the latest VCM standard development . 
We will also classify the existing proposals and provide de ⁃
tailed introductions to representative proposals .
3 Background of VCM Standard
The VCM standard has been attracting extensive interest 
since it was proposed , and more than 100 experts from about 
30 research institutes around the world have devoted them ⁃
selves to the MPEG VCM standard . In July 2019 , the VCM 
working group was established . In July 2020 , the formulation 
of requirements was completed and the first version of the 
VCM standard evaluation framework was determined . The 
first version of evidence collection and general test conditions 
was released in January 2021 . In October 2021 , according to 
the collected evidences , the VCM standard working group de ⁃
cided to divide the current coding scheme for machine vision 
into two technical routes , namely Track -1 and Track -2, where 
Track -1 stands for feature coding and Track -2 represents com ⁃
pression and then analysis (CTA). The Track -2 Call for Pro ⁃
posals (CfP) and the Track -1 Call for Evidences (CfE) were re ⁃
leased in April 2022  and July 2022 , respectively . The MPEG 
140th meeting that just ended has already collected a series of 
response proposals for Track -1 CfE and Track -2 CfP.
To facilitate the development of a new standard , it is essen ⁃
tial to clearly define the application scenario and establish a 
specific evaluation process . Such an approach allows for the 
comparison and evaluation of various solutions within the 
same evaluation system , which guides the direction of stan ⁃
dard development . These details are described as follows .
3.1 Use Cases
As communication transmission technology advances , par⁃
ticularly with the widespread adoption of 5G, various industries 
are undergoing digital and intelligent transformations . VCM has 
corresponding usage scenarios in many places in daily life , in⁃
cluding smart cities , intelligent transportation , intelligent sur ⁃
veillance , smart IoT , smart IoV , automatic driving , information 
security , smart factories , intelligent content , and so on , which 
have huge market and development potential . The current pro ⁃
posals on VCM have been set for several specific use cases , 
which can be roughly divided into the following categories .
3.1.1 Intelligent Transportation
A typical application of machine vision tasks is intelligent transportation . As vehicle traffic increases , there is a growing 
demand for intelligent transportation and vehicle intelligence 
to address traffic congestion and reduce accidents . The cam ⁃
eras and sensors deployed on cars can generate a large num ⁃
ber of data , which can be used for intelligent transportation 
tasks . In intelligent transportation systems , cars may need to 
communicate with each other to perform different tasks . Sen⁃
sors in urban infrastructure can transfer visual information to 
different vehicles , and then the information is used to com ⁃
plete machine vision tasks . The interconnection of vehicles is 
a key aspect of intelligent transportation systems . The IoV is 
expected to play a crucial role in future urban transportation 
systems , as it has the potential to improve safety , productivity , 
accessibility , and road efficiency . Vehicles equipped with 
multiple cameras can capture their surroundings and use deep 
neural networks (DNN ) to detect and recognize objects such as 
cars, pedestrians , and street furniture , as well as events such 
as traffic jams or accidents . In addition , the use of infrared 
and non -visible light imaging technologies like radar can pro ⁃
vide enhanced vision capabilities in low -light and adverse 
weather conditions , such as fog or rain . Intelligent transporta ⁃
tion has vast potential , while the significant requirement for 
M2M communication and video compression among IoV is an 
urgent challenge that needs to be addressed .
3.1.2 Intelligent Surveillance
Another common application scenario is the surveillance  
system . The industry has undergone decades of development 
and is now relatively mature with a large market size . Surveil ⁃
lance technology has been widely used in smart cities , traffic 
control , medical services , personal usage , etc. Currently , sur⁃
veillance systems can use neural networks to deal with differ ⁃
ent tasks , such as object detection and tracking . However , con⁃
sidering the number of sensors and the resolution , frame rate , 
and length of video to be transmitted , current surveillance sys ⁃
tems usually occupy a large amount of transmission band ⁃
width . Moreover , the increase in the number of front -end cam ⁃
eras adds a huge computational load to the back -end servers 
that perform machine vision tasks . Surveillance scenarios 
have many applications in reality . For example , behavior de ⁃
tection can detect potential hazards and object detection can 
analyze the crowd . In addition to the intelligent tasks men ⁃
tioned above , tasks such as fire detection and hazardous 
chemical leak detection can be performed . Some of these 
tasks can share the same upstream task module or pre -
processing process , enabling the reuse of resources . In this 
case, the descriptor is extracted on the front -end device and 
sent to the back -end server along with the video/feature en ⁃
coded by the VCM codec to accomplish the machine vision 
tasks of the back -end.
3.1.3 Intelligent Content
With the popularity of short video Apps , people are used to 
64