ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1CAO Xinghan , YIN Huarui , YOU Changsheng Special Topic   Near -Field Wireless Power Transfer , Sensing and Communication with Bessel Beams
shifting surface (PSS) antennas can also serve as beam convert ⁃
ers. Such research can be found in Refs . [6] and [7], where a 
PSS antenna with broadband and variable polarization charac ⁃
teristics was designed and optimized through maximizing the 
depth of field and maximizing the transmission distance and an 
antenna with the ability to freely change the beam direction is 
proposed , respectively . By combining two PSSs , a near -field ro ⁃
tatable Bessel beam generator with a simple feeding network 
was proposed in Ref . [20].
In contrast to the methods mentioned above for continuous 
control of the phase distribution , two -dimensional antenna ar ⁃
rays are used for the Bessel beam generation through sub -
sampled distributions , as studied in Ref . [13]. By modeling an ⁃
tenna elements with spherical waves and optimizing the array re ⁃
sponse on an observation synthesis plane using the least mean 
square error approach to approximate the expected response of a 
Bessel beam , the researchers obtained a phase distribution very 
similar to Eq . (6). However , sub -sampled distributions resulted 
in deviations in the amplitude distribution on the aperture and 
the Bessel function . The impact of antenna element spacing and 
distribution on the generated Bessel beam was also discussed in 
the research , providing guidance for generating Bessel beams 
through conventional large antenna arrays .
The designs mentioned above require the feed point to be pre ⁃
cisely located at the focus of the converter , posing challenges in 
terms of device integration[19]. RLSA 
antennas have been employed to ad ⁃
dress this issue . In Ref . [14], a holo ⁃
graphic technique was applied to syn ⁃
thesize the field distribution on the an ⁃
tenna aperture to generate the desired 
pseudo -Bessel beam in the near -field 
region . The RLSA consists of a radial 
parallel plate waveguide in which a ra ⁃
dial propagating mode is excited to 
feed a slot distribution etched on the 
upper metallic plate , achieving propa ⁃
gation distances of several hundred 
wavelengths with very high radiation 
efficiency (95%) and focusing effi ⁃
ciency (80%). In Ref . [15], the conclu ⁃
sion showed that it was possible to gen ⁃
erate Bessel beams by defining an azi ⁃
muthally invariant inward traveling 
wave distribution on the RLSA .
Additionally , other studies explore 
the generation of variations in Bessel 
beams . In Ref . [21], a shared -
aperture strategy was proposed to 
generate dual asymmetric Bessel 
beams , propagating in different direc ⁃
tions using metasurfaces . In Ref . 
[22], a metasurface was designed to achieve the superposition of two Bessel beams at different axi ⁃
con angles , providing a more uniform energy distribution for 
wireless power transfer applications . Some studies also sug ⁃
gest that modulating the excitation function can reduce the in ⁃
tensity oscillations of truncated Bessel beams , thereby achiev ⁃
ing a more uniform energy distribution[23–24]. Fig. 4 shows dif ⁃
ferent structures to generate Bessel beams .
3.2 Based on Vector Wave Theory
However , the scalar wave theory is only applicable for cases 
where the aperture size is much larger than the operating wave ⁃
length . For generating narrow beamwidths , the paraxial approxi ⁃
mation is no longer suitable[25]. Some studies have begun to ex ⁃
plore the use of vector wave theory to guide the generation of 
Bessel beams . This approach necessitates the use of vector po ⁃
tential to derive the distribution of the internal field within the 
material and the conditions required for generating the desired 
electric field distribution . The polarization modes of the field , i.
e., transverse magnetic (TM), transverse electric (TE), and trans ⁃
verse electromagnetic (TEM ), also need to be taken into consid ⁃
eration . In Ref . [11], two metasurfaces with the simultaneous 
control of wavefront phase and polarization capability were com ⁃
bined to convert linearly and circularly polarized Gaussian 
beams into vector Bessel beams , demonstrating low loss and 
high efficiency (Fig. 5).
▲Figure 4. Different structures to generate Bessel beams : (a) the surface -wave Bessel lens[8], (b) the top 
view of the radial line slot array (RLSA ) antenna[15], (c) the steerable antenna[7], and (d) the antenna array[13]PSS: phase -shifting surfacePlanar Bessel lens
Point source Bessel information zone
I half maxwell fisheye lens II flat lensx
z
(a)ZmaxCoaxial 
feed150 mm
(b)
(c) (d)z
ySteerable non ⁃
diffractive beamImax
dRPSS # 1
PSS # 2
Feeding hornP(x, y)φpssAxis of rotation
Steerable non ⁃
diffractive beamObservation synthesis plane
z0x
zRRarray
rijAntenna 
array planeD
IIIφ
ry
56