ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1SHEN Jiayu , YANG Jun , ZHU Chen , DENG Zhiji , HUANG Chongwen Special Topic   Near -Field Beam Training for Holographic MIMO Communications : Typical Methods , Challenges and Future Directions
It is worth pointing out that in HMIMO scenarios , the an ⁃
tenna aperture is generally very large , and thus the Rayleigh 
distance Z=2D2/λ, which separates the near and far fields 
of electromagnetic radiation , is no longer negligible[10]. For 
example , if we consider that the array aperture of the base 
station (BS) is 0.1 m and the carrier frequency is 28 GHz , we 
can get that the Rayleigh distance is only 1.8 m according to 
the formula ; if we consider that the array aperture of the BS 
is 0.7 m, the Rayleigh distance will be 91.5 m. Therefore , us⁃
ers are more likely to occur in the near -field region of the BS 
antenna array , where far -field beam training suffers a signifi ⁃
cant loss of accuracy because of the more significant proper ⁃
ties of spherical waves in the near -field region . To solve 
these difficulties , we need to focus on near -field beam train ⁃
ing and find efficient beam training methods .
Currently , there are many beam training algorithms for the 
far field[11–14]. However , due to the spherical wave characteris ⁃
tics of near -field communication , the existing far -field beam 
training algorithms cannot be directly applied to the near 
field. Specifically , traditional far -field beamforming directs 
the beam of a planar wavefront to a specific angle[15–16], 
whereas in the near -field region , the beam of a spherical wave ⁃
front can achieve beam focusing , concentrating the beam en ⁃
ergy in terms of the angle and range , thus providing a new de ⁃
gree of freedom (DoF), i.e., the distance dimension , for control ⁃
ling the spatial energy distribution . This brings challenges to 
the research of beam training algorithms for the near field .
We will introduce the typical algorithms for near -field beam 
training in HMIMO scenarios and compare their performance 
through simulation analysis . Moreover , we will discuss the ap ⁃
plication scenarios , main difficulties and possible future re ⁃
search directions of near -field beam training . The rest of the 
paper is organized as follows . In Section 2, this paper intro ⁃
duces the system model of the interest scenario and the code ⁃
book forms of beam training . Sev ⁃
eral typical methods and applica ⁃
tion scenarios of near -field beam 
training are introduced in Section 
3. In Section 4, simulation results 
and configuration of the testbed are 
given . Finally , we analyze the re ⁃
search challenges and possible fu ⁃
ture research directions for near -
field beam training in Section 5.
2 System Model
As shown in Fig . 1, we consider 
a downlink HMIMO communication 
scenario where K BSs and U users 
are distributed in the 3D space . 
The BS is deployed in the xz-plane , 
which employs a hybrid precoding 
architecture that equips V radio -frequency (RF) chains and an Nx×Nz antenna uniform planar 
array (UPA ), where V≪ NxNz. Note that if Nz=1, it is the 
case of uniform linear array (ULA ). Each user device is 
equipped with a single antenna . The central wavelength , hori ⁃
zontal/vertical antenna spacing , and operating frequency are 
λc, dx/dz and fc, respectively . The coordinate of the (m, n)-th 
antenna element of the k-th BS is (xk,n, yk, zk,m), where xk,n=
rkcosθksinϕk+ndx, yk=rksinθksinϕk, and zk,m=rkcosϕk+
mdz, n=1-Nx+1
2, …, Nx-Nx+1
2, m=1-Nz+1
2, …, 
Nz-Nz+1
2. rk, θk and ϕk denote the distance , azimuth angle , 
and the elevation angle of the link from the original O of the k-
th BS . For beam training , K BSs transmit training symbols in 
several directions while the users listen to the channel in all 
directions using a quasi -omnidirectional beam . For each user , 
the alignment of the BS side requires only its received multi -
BS superimposed signal power . Thus , we can perform down ⁃
link beam training for different users simultaneously without 
interference .
Let hk∈CNxNz×1 denote the channel from the k-th BS to the 
user, the received signal y at the user can be expressed by
y=∑
k=1K
hH
kFRFkfBBkx+nk, (1)
where fBBk∈CV×1 and FRFk∈CNxNz×V denote the digital pre ⁃
coder and analog beamformer at the k-th BS side , x denotes 
the transmit symbol with power P0, and nk∼CN(0,σ2) de⁃
notes Gaussian additive white noise .
In the HMIMO communication scenario , it is assumed that 
all users are in the near -field region , which is different from 
the normal MIMO scenario . Based on the spherical wave as ⁃
sumption , the near -field channel can be represented as
▲Figure 1. Downlink Holographic multiple -input multiple -output (HMIMO ) communication scenarioBS
……z
xy
Oθkϕkrk
Evanescent
wavesSpherical
wavesPlanar
waves
Far -field Radiative near -field Reactive near -field
Fresnel 
distanceRayleigh 
distance
42