ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LIU Mengyu , ZHANG Yang , JIN Yasheng , ZHI Kangda , PAN Cunhua Special Topic   Towards Near -Field Communications for 6G: Challenges and Opportunities
47 m for millimeter waves at 28 GHz . As the Rayleigh dis ⁃
tance increases , the user will be easily located in the near 
field rather than the far field of the base station (BS), meaning 
that the consideration of the near -field effect is crucial in 6G 
wireless communications . Within the near field , far field mod ⁃
els that approximate EM waves as plane waves are no longer 
accurate and the spherical shaping of the wavefront cannot be 
neglected[14]. This new property renders current wireless com ⁃
munication models and findings based on far field assump ⁃
tions inapplicable in the near -field cases . Therefore , it is nec ⁃
essary to re -investigate the challenges , potential benefits , and 
solutions introduced by considering near -field communica ⁃
tions to advance 6G communication capabilities .
Nowadays , there are relatively few articles about near -field 
communication in 6G[15–18]. The author of Ref . [15] provided 
an overview of 6G wireless systems including challenges , in⁃
sights , and related opportunities . Although the article elabo ⁃
rated on the challenges brought by the near field in future 6G 
wireless communication , there is a lack of explanation of its 
specific issues and opportunities . The authors of Ref . [16] pre⁃
sented an overview of near -field communications , contrasted it 
with far -field communications , and analyzed the key chal ⁃
lenges . However , the description of the channel modeling pro ⁃
cess is neglected . The authors of Ref . [17] studied the basic 
channel models , antenna structures , and analytical founda ⁃
tions . Furthermore , the authors of Ref . [18] studied the new 
opportunities brought by the near -field beam focusing caused 
by the near -field communications , which is different from that 
in the far field . Different from the above articles , we focus on 
more specific research problems in near -field communica ⁃
tions , especially the combination of near -field communication 
and new technologies , including the lat ⁃
est research results in the fields of deep 
learning and near -field beam training , 
RIS -aided near -field localization , and 
near -field transmission scheme design 
with visibility regions (VRs).
In this paper , we systematically pres ⁃
ent the fundamental models , recent ad ⁃
vancements , and solutions in 6G near -
field communication . To begin with , we 
introduce the overall spatial channel 
model , where the communication region 
is divided into three parts given different 
characteristics of array propagation sig ⁃
nal phases and power . Subsequently , we 
introduce the formulation of the channel 
model encompassing the MIMO systems , 
accounting for both the far field and the 
near field . Then , we present recent ad ⁃
vances in near -field communication for 
6G, including near -field beam training , 
near -field localization , and near -field transmission scheme design . We elaborate on the challenges 
encountered in near -field communication within these use 
cases and provide corresponding solutions . Finally , we share 
some promising research directions for near -field communica ⁃
tion, such as investigating the effectiveness of near -field beam 
training in complex environments , proposing near -field local ⁃
ization algorithms with low complexity and overhead , and car ⁃
rying out channel measurements to verify and modify the near -
field EM channel model .
2 Fundamentals of Near -Field Communica ⁃
tions
In this section , we first introduce the overall space channel 
model . Subsequently , we elaborate on the modeling approach 
to the near -field channel . Additionally , the spatial nonstation ⁃
ary property of the channel in the near field is investigated .
2.1 Analysis of the Overall Space Channel Model
As illustrated in Fig. 1, the space from BS to the user can 
be divided into three regions : far field , radiating near field , 
and reactive near field . These regions are divided according to 
the Rayleigh distance and Fresnel distance[19–21], respectively . 
The far field refers to the region where the distance between 
the transmitter and the receiver exceeds the Rayleigh dis ⁃
tance , allowing the propagating signal to be safely approxi ⁃
mated as the plane wave . In the radiating near field , the dis ⁃
tance between the transmitter and the receiver is typically less 
than the Rayleigh distance but greater than the Fresnel dis ⁃
tance , where the propagating signal can no longer be modeled 
as the plane wave ; instead , the accurate spherical wave model 
NUSW : non -uniform spherical wave
UPW : uniform planar waveUSW : uniform spherical wave
▲Figure 1. Overall channel modelBase stationSpherical wavefronts
NUSW USW
·Non -linear phase
·Non -uniform power·Non -linear phase
·Uniform powerPlanar wavefronts
UPW
·Linear phase
·Uniform power
User
Uniform power distance
Radiating near field
Fresnel distance Rayleigh distanceFar fieldPropagation 
distance
Reactive near field
04