ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHAO Yaqiong , KE Hongqin , XU Wei , YE Xinquan , CHEN Yijian Review   RIS -Assisted Cell Free MIMO : A Survey
an active relay to assist the transmission from APs to users . 
However , since the AP antennas are generally tilted down ⁃
wards to serve the ground users , communication with UAV 
usually suffers from poor signal strength . One way to deal 
with this problem is by tilting the AP antenna upwards or allo ⁃
cating more transmit power to the UAV . However , this would 
weaken the communication with ground users . Motivated by 
the emerging RIS technology , some researchers proposed to 
utilize RIS to strengthen the UAV com ⁃
munication while maintaining or even 
improving the downlink rate at the 
ground users[41]. By judiciously design ⁃
ing the reflection coefficients of the RIS 
and the power allocation , the achievable 
rate of both the UAV and the ground us ⁃
ers can be improved without changing 
the AP antenna tilt .
4.3 Wireless Energy Transfer
In practice , most I oE devices will be 
battery - or energy -constrained due to 
their limited sizes . Although frequent 
battery replacement and replenishing 
may offer a temporary solution to this 
problem , in future communication sys ⁃
tems with multitudinous ubiquitous mo ⁃
bile access devices such as CF MIMO , 
this comes with dramatically high labor 
and material costs . As such , advanced 
energy supplement techniques are ur ⁃
gently needed to improve the energy 
shortage challenges .
Among various candidates , wireless 
energy transfer has been regarded as a 
promising technology to address these 
critical energy replenishing problems . 
Specifically , the radio frequency (RF) 
energy signal radiated by the AP can be 
acquired at the energy receiver by utiliz ⁃
ing the far -field radiation properties of 
electromagnetic waves . After that , the 
AP transforms the received energy sig ⁃
nal into energy for potential use . Unfor ⁃
tunately , despite the appealing merits of 
WET , it still faces some practical prob ⁃
lems such as severe loss attenuation and 
signal obstruction . As a remedy , RIS has 
exactly the ability to smartly enhance 
the channel conditions via software -
controlled signal reflection . Figs . 5 and 
6 illustrate the specific transmission 
flow and the system architecture of the 
RIS -assisted CF MIMO system with WET respectively . As shown in Fig . 5, for the proposed RIS -
assisted CF MIMO systems , multiple cooperative APs transmit 
both information signals and energy -carrying signals to mul ⁃
tiple energy receivers and information receivers , where RISs 
are deployed to enhance the corresponding communication 
links . In Fig . 6, the system architecture can be divided into 
four parts . In the first part , the energy receivers transmit the 
energy demand signal to the APs through direct and RIS -
▲Figure 5. Transmission flow of RIS -assisted cell -free (CF) multiple -input multiple -output (MIMO ) 
system with wireless energy transmission (WET )CPU: central processing unit      RIS : reconfigurable intelligent surface     UE : user equipment
▲Figure 6. Architecture of RIS -assisted cell -free multiple -input multiple -output (CF MIMO ) sys⁃
tem with wireless energy transmission (WET )AP: access point      CPU : central processing unit      RIS : reconfigurable intelligent surfaceEnergy flow Information flowRISUplinkDownlinkUE
Fronthaul link
AP② Received demand signal
① Energy demand signal
④ Wireless energy transfer③ Control signalCPU
Power allocation
RIS
Energy receiverCPU
AP
82