ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1ZHANG Qiang , MEI Junjun , GUAN Tao , SUN Zhewen , ZHANG Zixiang , YU Li Review   Recent Advances in Video Coding for Machines Standard and Technologies
which includes five parts : pre -analysis , pre -processing , en⁃
coder , decoder , and restoration . The pre -analysis part in ⁃
cludes network -based RoI detection to identify regions of in ⁃
terest , in addition to input region classification and statistical 
analysis modules . The pre -processing part includes RoI -based 
packing , resampling , rearranging , and resampling of temporal 
and spatial dimensions . The codecs can use existing legacy co ⁃
decs, layered codecs , neural network -based codecs , and 
network -based adapters for humans . In the restoration part , 
RoI -based packing and scaling are reversed and spatio -
temporal resampling is used to reconstruct the input video and 
fed into the back -end machine vision task network . In addi ⁃
tion to the above main route , some additional information , in⁃
cluding RoI metadata , descriptors and sampling ratios , is also 
transmitted for the restoration of the input signal .
In addition , the test software platform of VCM called Test 
Model Under Verification (TMUV ) 1.0 is also developed and 
verified , and its flow chart is shown in Fig . 7. Among them , 
different strategies are adopted for the input video frame ac ⁃
cording to intra -frame and inter -frame . The intra -frame is pre -
processed and spatially down -sampled and then compressed 
by an end -to-end codec for the intra -frame , utilizing spatial 
up-sampling and RoI unpacking to restore . For inter -frames , 
the overall process is similar , while the up -and -down sampling 
part is different from that in intra -frames , using up -and -down 
sampling based on time dimension and space dimension . In 
addition , the traditional codec is used for compression , and 
the compression result of the intra -frame is processed by the 
intra -frame human eye adapter to assist in the encoding and 
decoding of the inter -frame , and then converted into a code 
stream suitable for machine vision by the inter -frame machine 
adapter for subsequent frame -to-frame reconstruction . Finally , 
intra -frames and inter -frames are mixed and assembled , and sent to subsequent machine vision tasks .
6 Conclusions
We introduce the current development status , background 
and evaluation framework of the VCM standard , in addition to 
some mainstream implementation methods and the latest ad ⁃
vances . VCM is a research hotspot with numerous scholars 
and companies deeply involved . The VCM standardization or ⁃
ganization has established guidelines for use cases , require ⁃
ments , test frameworks , datasets , and evaluation metrics . Ad⁃
ditionally , a series of proposals and evidence are collected to 
facilitate the formation of an international standard . At pres ⁃
ent, the two main routes (Track -1 and Track -2) have achieved 
significant performance gains , and related methods are further 
explored and improved . However , there are still some prob ⁃
lems in the existing schemes , such as insufficient support for 
multitask , high complexity of learning -based schemes , and dif ⁃
ficulties in simultaneously achieving efficient compression for 
human vision and machine vision . As standardization ad ⁃
vances and more in -depth research is conducted , it is ex ⁃
pected that the VCM standard can achieve efficient machine 
vision -oriented compression and facilitate M 2M communica ⁃
tion in the wild . Our aim in writing this paper is to promote a 
deeper understanding of VCM among scholars and research ⁃
ers, and to encourage greater involvement in this field to drive 
its rapid development . Currently , there is a growing expecta ⁃
tion for the convergence of research areas between two types 
of video coding standard organizations : NNVC , which focuses 
on neural network -based approaches , and JVET , which is cen ⁃
tered on traditional codecs . The merging of expertise aims to 
encompass the existing VCM standard and foster the develop ⁃
ment of video coding techniques specifically tailored for ma ⁃
chine vision applications . As research progresses in the field 
▲Figure 7. Flowchart of VCM ’s test software platform TMUV 1.0Pre -processing based 
on analysis (e.g., blur , 
BG removal and pack ⁃
ing)Spatial 
down -samplingIntra -frame codec 
(E2E)Spatial 
up-samplingROI unpacking , 
etc.Rec intra
Frame mixer for 
machine branch
ROI unpacking , 
etc.Spatial/temporal 
up-samplingIMAIntra -frame codec 
(conventional )IHA
Spatial/temporal 
down -samplingPre -processing based 
on analysis (e.g., blur , 
BG removal and pack ⁃
ing)
Machine -targeted RA 
configuration (QP off ⁃
sets for higher TID )Rec interRec video
Side informationSide information
Intra -frame
Input 
image/video
Inter -frameAnalysis (e.g., 
ROI detection )Codec control (e.g., 
spatial QP offsets )
BG: background Gaussian
IHA: intra -human adapterIMA: inter -machine adapter
RA: random accessROI: region of interest
QP: quantization parameter TID: temporal ID 
74