ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
March  2024  Vol.22 No.1LIU Mengyu , ZHANG Yang , JIN Yasheng , ZHI Kangda , PAN Cunhua Towards Near -Field Communications for 6G: Challenges and Opportunities    Special Topic
La={σ1,σ2,⋯,σK}, Ld={γ1,γ2,⋯,γL}, (22)
where . denotes the order operation . By performing KL addi ⁃
tional near -field beam training tests , we can get the optimal 
near -field beam .
Simulation results validate the advantages of original and 
improved schemes compared with the sweep scheme as shown 
in Fig. 6. The improved scheme can achieve over 90% of the 
data rate and reduce overhead by 95% compared with the 
sweep scheme . This stems from the remarkable data process ⁃
ing capabilities in neural networks and the full leveraging of 
the output in the improved scheme .
3.2 Localization for Near -Field Communications
3.2.1 Challenges
In THz systems , the performance of positioning can be im ⁃
proved since all the geometric information is included in the 
channel state information (CSI) measurements , which can be es ⁃
timated more accurately with narrow beams[42]. In addition , RIS 
can provide reliable and high -precision estimation performance 
with low energy consumption , and the large size of the RIS 
panel enables high -accuracy positioning parameter estima ⁃
tion[43]. Therefore , research on RIS -aided localization has at ⁃
tracted increasing attention , while most of them adopted the pla ⁃
nar wavefront based on the far -field channel model[44–52].
However , in some envisioned scenarios with the XL -RIS 
panel , the typical indoor communication distances may not 
guarantee the validity of far -field conditions . In addition , UE 
is usually located in the near -field area of the XL -RIS in the 
THz localization system owing to the short wavelength[53]. 
Therefore , the spherical wavefront of near -field transmission 
should be considered in XL -RIS -based THz localization , 
where the transmitted wavefront will arrive at each element of the RIS panel with different Angles of Arrival (AoAs ). The as ⁃
sumption that all the RIS elements share a common AoA of 
the same path is no longer valid , making the channel estima ⁃
tion and localization more challenging .
3.2.2 Existing Works
Although near -field RIS behavior has attracted increasing 
attention recently , the study on RIS -aided near -field localiza ⁃
tion is still in its infancy . Most researchers considering the 
spherical wavefront mainly analyzed the Fisher information 
matrix (FIM) and the Cramer -Rao lower bound (CRLB ) to il ⁃
lustrate the position error bound (PEB) and orientation error 
bound (OEB ), which could be derived as performance bench ⁃
marks for the practical algorithms[48, 54–55]. In addition , the au ⁃
thors of Ref . [56] proposed an algorithm of RIS -aided near -
field joint channel estimation and localization (NF-JCEL ) in 
THz systems , which addressed the specific issue of channel 
estimation and UE positioning in the near -field scenario .
3.2.3 RIS -Aided Near -Field Localization Algorithm
The authors of Ref . [56] considered the uplink transmission 
of a THz localization system as shown in Fig. 7, where the di ⁃
rect links between the AP and the UE are assumed to be ob ⁃
structed . The receiving antenna arrays of the AP and the RIS 
are assumed to be ULA and UPA , respectively .
Assuming that the UE is located at the near field of the RIS 
panel , the authors derived the two -dimensional Fresnel ap ⁃
proximation of the distance between the m-th element and UE 
u, and approximated the near -field array response as :
aN,i
R,u(ωu, φu, d0
u)[m]=exp(-j2π
λi(Jm(ωu, φu)+
Qm(ωu, φu, d0
u))),
(23)
▲Figure 6. Normalized SNR for the original and improved schemesSNR: signal -to-noise ratio
▲Figure 7. System model and communication scenarioAP: access point
LoS: line -of-sightRIS: reconfigurable intelligent surface
UE: user equipmentTransmit SNR/dB0.0   2.5   5.0  7.5  10.0 12.5 15.0 17.5 20.0Normalized SNROriginal
Improved (K=5, L=1)
Improved (K=10, L=1)
Improved (K=1, L=2)
Improved (K=5, L=2)
Improved (K=10, L=2)
Sweep scheme1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
UE 1UE 2 xyz
APRIS
LoS 
path
LoS 
pathLoS path
blocked
LoS path
blocked
09