ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4GONG Panyin , ZHANG Guidong , ZHANG Zhigang , CHEN Xiao , DING Xuan Research on Fall Detection System Based on Commercial Wi -Fi Devices    Research Papers
phase difference of different receiving antennas and uses the 
amplitude and phase difference information of CSI to demon ⁃
strate human activities . FallViewer designs a series of CSI de ⁃
noising schemes to obtain more refined CSI information for 
characterizing human activities . These works all utilize tradi ⁃
tional machine learning approaches such as support vector ma ⁃
chines (SVM ) to classify activity and perform fall detection . 
The second category is to process the received signal in the 
time and frequency domain to obtain higher -order features , 
such as the short time Fourier transform (STFT ) spectrum , and 
this type of work includes FallDeFi[21], TL -Fall[22], CNNFall[23], 
etc. Both FallDeFi and CNNFall utilize denoising of CSI and 
perform STFT to extract Doppler frequency shift information 
to characterize user activities . FallDeFi extracts statistical fea ⁃
tures from the Doppler frequency shift and selects the features 
that are closely related to human activities , using SVM for 
classification . On the other hand , CNNFall uses a convolu ⁃
tional neural network model to classify Doppler information 
and perform fall detection . The original features of CSI are in ⁃
fluenced by the environment , which makes it difficult to repre ⁃
sent human activities ; the STFT spectrum has a fixed window 
size, which cannot balance the temporal and spatial resolu ⁃
tion. Most existing works[17–22] in feature classification have 
used traditional machine learning schemes for classification , 
such as SVM and random forests . A small number of works 
have implemented a classification based on deep learning 
models[23]. In these traditional machine learning solutions , sta⁃
tistical features are extracted without clear physical meanings . 
In order to better meet the practical needs , we are devoted to 
designing a fall detection system based on commercial Wi -Fi 
devices , which increases the system performance and mini ⁃
mizes the computational complexity of the system . In the fea ⁃
ture extraction stage , we extract the discrete wavelet transform 
(DWT ) spectrum from the received raw signal as a feature to 
characterize the person ’s activities . Theoretically , using dif ⁃
ferent window sizes to extract human activity information in 
different frequency bands of the DWT 
spectrum can maintain high frequency 
resolution in the low -frequency band 
and high time resolution in the high -
frequency band , which is more flexible 
than using a fixed window size . In addi ⁃
tion, DWT spectrums can reduce the in ⁃
terference of the surrounding environ ⁃
ment on the channel state information 
and mitigate the impact of environmen ⁃
tal changes . In the feature classification 
stage , we design a deep learning model 
based on convolutional neural networks 
to build a classifier to identify the fall 
action . Compared with traditional ma ⁃
chine learning models , deep models can 
better extract high -order spatio -temporal information about human activities and obtain more universal 
representations of human activities . Meanwhile , we evaluate 
the system based on the data collected on commercial Wi -Fi 
devices . The evaluation results show that the performance is 
better than existing fall detection work and other combined 
schemes , and the complexity of the model is less than other 
deep classification models . In summary , the main contribu ⁃
tions of this paper are as follows .
1) We propose a new fall detection solution based on com ⁃
mercial Wi -Fi devices , which achieves better performance 
with less computation costs compared with existing solutions .
2) We select the discrete transform wavelet spectrum as the 
feature for activity classification , which has better environmen ⁃
tal robustness compared with the original feature .
3) We design a deep learning model based on convolutional 
neural networks , which can extract higher -order features and 
better characterize human activities compared with traditional 
machine learning models .
4) We have conducted extensive experiments , including 
both fall and non -fall. The experimental results show that our 
work outperforms existing fall detection work and other com ⁃
bined schemes , and achieves a false alarm rate of 4.8% and a 
missed alarming rate of 1.9%.
The rest of this work is organized as follows . Section 2 pres ⁃
ents the design of the system , Section 3 evaluates the imple ⁃
mented system , and Section 4 summarizes this work .
2 System Design
2.1 System Overview
The overall framework design of the system is shown in 
Fig. 1. In the data collection module , we use commercial Wi -
Fi devices to collect CSI of different activities of people . The 
feature extraction module preprocesses the received raw CSI 
information and then extracts the DWT spectrum as the fea ⁃
tures for activity classification . The feature classification 
▲Figure 1. System framework diagramCSI: channel state information     DWT : discrete wavelet transform     PCA : principle component analysisInterpolation Signal denoising
Signal 
smoothing
PCADWT 
calculation
Feature extractionFeature extraction
DWT
Feature classification
Spatial feature 
analysisFall detectorData collectionNormalFall CSI signal
Fall
Normal
61