ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4GONG Panyin , ZHANG Guidong , ZHANG Zhigang , CHEN Xiao , DING Xuan Research Papers   Research on Fall Detection System Based on Commercial Wi -Fi Devices
and 200 Hz, and adjust the input scale of the network to match 
the extracted signal features for fall detection . The performance 
of the system is shown in Fig . 9, where the performance of the 
system also decreases gradually as the sampling frequency  de⁃
creases . When the sampling frequency  decreases from 1 000 
Hz to 200 Hz, the MAR and FAR of the system decrease by 
8.2% and 1.3%, respectively . This is due to the fact that the 
user’s velocity increases suddenly during the falling motion , 
which is harder to capture at lower sampling frequencies .
4) Signal interpolation algorithm performance analysis . To 
test the performance of the signal interpolation algorithm in the 
case of non -uniform sampling , we construct non -uniformly 
sampled data by randomly selecting 50% of the existing uni ⁃
formly sampled samples with an overall sampling frequency  of 
500 Hz, and process the constructed data using a one -
dimensional linear interpolation method . We then perform fea ⁃
ture extraction and classification on the constructed non -
uniformly sampled data and the interpolated data respectively , 
and observe the effect . As shown in  Fig. 10, after signal interpo ⁃
lation , the MAR and FAR of the system are 7.2% and 2.5%, re⁃
spectively . The results are 2.8% and 0.6% lower than the MAR 
and FAR of the directly non -uniformly sampled data , respec ⁃
tively . Theoretically , using non -uniformly sampled data to cal ⁃culate the time -frequency domain characteristics of the signal 
introduces a certain amount of error . The interpolation algo ⁃
rithm of the signal can mitigate this part of the error .
5) Relevant parameters and activity analysis . In the experi ⁃
ment , the MAR and FAR of the system are also changed by 
adjusting the threshold of activity discrimination . Fig. 11 
shows the changes in MAR and FAR in the case of system 
threshold adjustment . It can be seen that MAR and FAR con ⁃
strain each other , and theoretically , the thresholds can be ad ⁃
justed as needed to obtain the corresponding performance of 
the system . In this system , we adjust the MAR around 4.8% 
and obtain the corresponding FAR of 1.9%. In addition , we 
analyze the probability of misjudgment for different normal ac ⁃
tivities and the probability of misjudgment for different fall 
types , and the results are shown in Figs. 12 and 13, respec ⁃
tively . It can be seen that the bending and picking up action 
has the highest false alarm rate of 4.0%, followed by walking 
and sitting/standing up . The speed of human movements in 
these actions is usually faster , and the actions of bending 
down and picking up , and sitting down/standing up have some 
similarities with falls , so false alarms occur easily . And among 
the different types of falls , tripping has the highest missed 
alarm rate of 7.8%, followed by kneeling and sitting/stum ⁃
bling . Since tripping and kneeling happen when the user usu ⁃
▲Figure 9. Effect of different channel state information (CSI) sampling 
frequencies
FAR : false alarm rate     MAR : missed alarm rate
▲Figure 10. Signal interpolation algorithm performance analysis▲Figure 11. Impact of threshold selection on performancFAR : false alarm rate     MAR : missed alarm rate
▲Figure 12. Probability of false alarms for different non -falling activitiesSample frequency/Hz1 000          750          500           330          250           200MAR
FARRate/%20
15
10
5
0Rate/%20
15
10
5
0
Experiment settingsMAR
FAR
Without interpolation With interpolationThreshold0  0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8  110
8
6
4
2
0Rate/%MAR
FAR
Different activitiesBend/pickup Walk Sit/standRate/%5
4
3
2
1
0FAR : false alarm rate     MAR : missed alarm rate
66