ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4GONG Panyin , ZHANG Guidong , ZHANG Zhigang , CHEN Xiao , DING Xuan Research on Fall Detection System Based on Commercial Wi -Fi Devices    Research Papers
samples , the number of dummy samples accounts for about 
490 groups , and the rest are falls of real users . The sample 
types of falls include tripping , slipping , losing balance , kneel ⁃
ing, sitting -falling , and walking -falling , and the sample types 
of non -falls include activities such as walking , jogging , sitting/
standing up , bending down to pick up , and squatting .
3) Detection metrics . Our work uses two intuitive fall detec ⁃
tion metrics : the false alarm rate (FAR ) and the missed alarm 
rate (MAR ). FAR is the ratio between the number of incor ⁃
rectly identified normal activity samples and that of all normal 
samples , showing how often users are disturbed when no fall 
activity occurs . MAR is the ratio between the number of incor ⁃
rectly identified fall samples and that of all fall samples , show ⁃
ing the sensitivity and detection capability of the system for 
fall activity .
3.2 System Performance
1) Performance comparison of existing work . We compare 
the present work with the currently available work on fall de ⁃
tection using Wi -Fi based devices . We divide the pre -
collected dataset into a training set and a test set and extract 
the corresponding features for evaluation , using a ten -fold 
cross -validation approac h. Fig. 7 shows 
the performance of the system evalua ⁃
tion. The MAR and FAR of our system 
are 4.8% and 1.9%, respectively , which 
are better than the existing work . Since 
the experimentally collected non -fall 
data are all data of users performing ac ⁃
tivities , and according to the survey re ⁃
sults of the National Bureau of Statis ⁃
tics, the average time spent by Chinese 
residents at home is about 7.5 h per day , 
and the FAR of the system will be fur ⁃
ther reduced in the home scenario , 
which is expected to be around 0.6%.
A comparison of existing work 
shows that using deep models for fall 
detection performs significantly better 
than using traditional machine learn ⁃
ing. For example , using a deep learn ⁃
ing model outperforms a traditional 
machine learning SVM model when 
the same DWT spectrum is used as the 
extracted feature . Specifically , the 
MAR and FAR decrease by 10.6% 
and 8.3%, respectively . In theory , the 
deep learning model can acquire more 
hidden features in the wireless signal ; 
while the traditional machine learning 
model mostly extracts statistical fea ⁃
tures for activity identification , which 
is relatively less physically significant .2) Performance comparison of different deep model 
schemes . In addition to the already working detection 
schemes , we combine different detection schemes by our ⁃
selves based on the CSI amplitude/phase , DWT spectrum and 
STFT spectrum , combined with models such as the long short -
term memory (LSTM ) network in deep learning . The results of 
our systematic evaluation of different schemes are shown in  
Fig. 8. It can be seen that with the deep learning models , the 
performance of the DWT spectrum and STFT spectrum -based 
schemes is better than that of the original feature -based 
schemes such as CSI magnitude . For example , when the CNN 
model is used for feature classification , the DWT spectrum is 
better than the CSI amplitude . Specifically , MAR and FAR de ⁃
crease by 3.2% and 0.7% respectively .
3) Analysis of CSI sampling frequency . In the above experi ⁃
ments , the CSI sampling frequency is 1 000 Hz. Considering 
that the Wi -Fi packet transmission may be disturbed in actual 
use, the sampling frequency may be degraded . Therefore , we 
evaluate the impact of the CSI sampling frequency on the sys ⁃
tem performance . We use 1 000 Hz to capture CSI , downs ⁃
ample the CSI data stream to 750 Hz, 500 Hz, 330 Hz, 250 Hz 
Amp : amplitude
CNN : convolutional neural networks
DWT : discrete wavelet transformFAR : false alarm rate
MAR : missed alarm rate
Pha: phaseSTFT : short time Fourier transform
SVM : support vector machines
▲Figure 7. Comparison of existing work
Amp : amplitude
CNN : convolutional neural networks
DWT : discrete wavelet transformFAR : false alarm rate
LSTM : long short -term memory
MAR : missed alarm rateSTFT : short time Fourier transform
▲Figure 8. Comparison of depth modeling solutions
MAR
FAR
Different wordRate/%
DWT+CNN Amp+SVM Amp /Pha+SVM DWT+SVM STFT+SVM STFT+CNN40
30
20
10
0Rate/%20
15
10
5
0
DWT+CNN DWT+LSTM DWT+
CNN/LSTMSTFT+
LSTMSTFT+
CNN/LSTMAmp+CNN Amp+L STM Amp +
CNN/LSTMMAR
FAR
65