ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4ZHANG Huiran , DONG Zhen , WANG Mingsheng Special Topic   Spatio -Temporal Context -Guided Algorithm for Lossless Point Cloud Geometry Compression
3.2 Image Sliced -Based Hierarchical Division
1) Pre -processing 
The pre -processing module includes voxelization and scale 
transformation , for better indexing of each certain point . In 
voxelization , we divide the space into cubes of size N, which 
corresponds to the actual resolution of the point cloud . Each 
point is assigned a unique voxel based on its position . A voxel 
is recorded as 1; if it is positively occupied , it is 0 otherwise .
Scale transformation can reduce the sparsity for better com ⁃
pression by zooming out the point cloud , where the distance 
between points gets smaller . We aggregate the point cloud co ⁃
ordinates (x, y, z) using a scaling factor s, i.e.,
P̂
n=Pn×s=(xn×s, yn×s, zn×s), s≤1 . (1)
To ensure lossless compression , we need to ensure that the 
scaling factor s cannot cause geometry loss and needs to be re ⁃
corded in the header file .
2) Sliced -layer division
This module works by dividing the 3D point cloud along 
one of its axes , creating several unit -sliced layers with occu ⁃
pied and non -occupied information only that can be further 
compressed using a predictive encoder and an arithmetic 
coder . The function is defined as :
S(a,b)=slice(G, axis)=ì
í
îïïïï
ïïïïG() x, a, b,  if axis=X
G() a, y, b,  if axis=Y
G() a, b, z,  if axis=Z , (2)
where G refers to the input point cloud coordinate matrix , axis 
refers to the selected dimension , and S(a, b) is the 2D slice 
extracted by each layer .
In general , we conduct experiments on a large number of test sequences , and results suggest that division along the lon ⁃
gest axis of point cloud spatial variation yields the lowest bi ⁃
trate, i.e.
axis=ì
í
îïïïï
ïïïïX,if( ) xmax-xmin≥( ) ymax-ymin,( ) xmax-xmin≥( ) zmax-zmin
Y,if( ) ymax-ymin>( ) xmax-xmin,( ) ymax-ymin≥( ) zmax-zmin
Z, if else .
(3)
3) Minimum bounding box extraction
In most cases , on -occupied voxels are typically unavoid ⁃
able and greatly outnumber occupied voxels . As a result , pro⁃
cessing and encoding both types of voxels simultaneously 
burdens the computational complexity and encoding speeds 
of the compression algorithm . Therefore , we adopt the ori ⁃
ented bounding box (OBB )[39] to calculate the minimum 
bounding box for each sliced layer , ensuring that the direc ⁃
tions of the bounding boxes are consistent across layers . In 
subsequent processing , only the voxels located within the re ⁃
stricted rectangle are compressed .
3.3 Spatial Context -Guided Predictive Encoding
The goal of spatial context -guided predictive encoding is to 
encode all the points layer by layer . Inspired by the TSP , we 
design a prediction mode to explore the potential orders and 
correlation within each sliced layer . This module consists of 
partition and the shortest path calculation .
At first , we partition the sliced layers and determine the R -
layer and R -layers for each group . We traverse the point cloud 
layer by layer along the selected axis . When the length of the 
main direction of the minimum bounding box between adja ⁃
cent layers differs by a specified unit length , it is recorded as 
the same group . Otherwise , it is used as the reference layer of 
▲Figure 1. Proposed framework for spatio -temporal context -guided lossless point cloud geometry compressionInput
Portraits dense point cloud data sequences Large -scale sparse point cloud data
Pre -processing Layer partition Predictive encoder Arithmetic encoderOutput
Low bit rate . bin file…
Y
20