ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4SHI Wenzhe , LIU Yanbin , ZHOU Qinfen Special Topic   Local Scenario Perception and Web AR Navigation
Local Scenario Perception and Local Scenario Perception and 
Web AR NavigationWeb AR Navigation
SHI Wenzhe1,2, LIU Yanbin1,2, ZHOU Qinfen1
(1. State Key Laboratory of Mobile Network and Mobile Multimedia 
Technology , Shenzhen 518055 , China ；
 2. ZTE Corporation , Shenzhen 518057 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304007
https ://kns .cnki.net/kcms/detail/ 34.1294 .TN.20231129 .1522 .004.html, 
published online November 30, 2023
Manuscript received : 2023 -06-20
Abstract : This paper proposes a local point cloud map -based Web augmented reality (AR) indoor navigation system solution . By delivering 
the local point cloud map to the web front end for positioning , the real -time positioning can be implemented only with the help of the comput ⁃
ing power of the web front end . In addition , with the characteristics of short time consumption and accurate positioning , an optimization solu ⁃
tion to the local point cloud map is proposed , which includes specific measures such as descriptor de -duplicating and outlier removal , thus im ⁃
proving the quality of the point cloud . In this document , interpolation and smoothing effects are introduced for local map positioning , enhanc ⁃
ing the anchoring effect and improving the smoothness and appearance of user experience . In small -scale indoor scenarios , the positioning fre ⁃
quency on an iPhone 13 can reach 30 fps, and the positioning precision is within 50 cm. Compared with an existing mainstream visual -based 
positioning manner for AR navigation , this specification does not rely on any additional sensor or cloud computing device , thereby greatly sav ⁃
ing computing resources . It takes a very short time to meet the real -time requirements and provide users with a smooth positioning effect .
Keywords : Web AR ; three -dimensional reconstruction ; navigation ; positioning
Citation  (Format 1): SHI W Z , LIU Y B , ZHOU Q F . Local scenario perception and Web AR navigation [J]. ZTE Communications , 2023 , 21(4): 
54–59. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304007
Citation (Format 2): W. Z. Shi, Y. B. Liu, and Q . F. Zhou , “Local scenario perception and Web AR navigation ,” ZTE Communications , vol. 21, 
no. 4, pp. 54–59, Dec. 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304007 .
1 Introduction
There are three existing positioning manners for aug ⁃
mented reality (AR) navigation : visual positioning , GPS 
positioning , and multi -sensor fusion positioning . Spe⁃
cifically , visual positioning is based on a conventional 
simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM ) framework , and 
the main steps include feature extraction , feature matching , 
and position solving . This model has high precision , but re ⁃
quires high computing power and cannot run on the Web side .
Outdoor AR navigation can achieve good results by using 
GPS technology . However , in an indoor scenario , the signal 
strength of GPS is greatly affected , and consequently , position ⁃
ing precision is obviously reduced . Therefore , the GPS -based 
positioning manner cannot be applied to indoor AR navigation .
A positioning manner of multi -sensor fusion is to obtain the 
position of a camera by fusing data from sensors such as an in ⁃
ertial sensor , a laser radar , Bluetooth , and Wi -Fi. In this man ⁃
ner, although positioning accuracy is high , the sensor is vulner ⁃
able to environments , thereby decreasing positioning perfor ⁃
mance . In addition , in this manner , a large number of sensors need to be calibrated and fused , and a development cost is high .
Although the foregoing three methods can obtain relatively 
high precision in certain specific scenarios , they cannot be ap ⁃
plied to an indoor Web AR navigation scenario . The core rea ⁃
son is that the computing power on the Web side is limited 
and cannot meet the intensive requirements of AR computing . 
If a positioning system that meets performance requirements 
can be implemented on the web front end by using limited 
computing power , dependence on an external computing envi ⁃
ronment or device will be reduced , development costs can be 
cut, and the application scope and user experience of indoor 
Web AR navigation will be greatly improved .
2 Key Technologies of Visual Perception
2.1 3D Reconstruction Techniques
To implement a visual method of good positioning , preci ⁃
sion is indispensable for a robust three -dimensional recon ⁃
struction process . An objective of three -dimensional recon ⁃
struction is to obtain a geometric structure and a structure of 
an object or a scene from a group of images , which may be 
implemented by using a motion recovery structure (Structure -
from -Motion , SFM ). SFM is a method for implementing three -
dimensional reconstruction and mainly used in a phase of con ⁃
This work is supported in part by ZTE Industry⁃University⁃Institute Coop ⁃
eration Funds .
54