ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4TIAN Ruihan , WU Xuezhi , XU Wenzheng , ZUO Zhiling , CHEN Changqing Research Papers   A Hybrid Five -Level Single -Phase Rectifier with Low Common -Mode Voltage
age levels under the equilibrium condition , namely 0.5 Vdc, 
0.25 Vdc, 0, −0.25 Vdc and −0.5 Vdc. When the output level is 
−E, 0 and E, there are two redundant switching states respec ⁃
tively , and when the output level is −E and E, the correspond ⁃
ing two switching states , namely (V2, V3) and (V6, V7), have op ⁃
posite effects on the charging and discharging of the FC volt ⁃
age. The voltage equalizing control of FC can be realized by 
adjusting the two switching states properly .
For a single -phase rectifier , common -mode voltage is de ⁃
fined as Vcm=(Va+Vb)/2, where Va, and Vb are the voltages of 
bridge arms A and B, and the common -mode current has a di ⁃
rect relationship with the amplitude of common -mode voltage 
and the step slope d Vcm/dt. Therefore , effectively reducing the 
amplitude and jump slope of common -mode voltage can effec ⁃
tively reduce the common -mode current .
The proposed five -level topology has a total of eight 
switching devices , which need to provide eight + 15 V/−5 V 
on/off signals to ensure the safety and accuracy of the driv ⁃
ing signals . The vertical switches S1–S4 are operated at the 
power frequency and can be isolated from the main circuit 
by an isolation transformer . The switches S5–S8 are oper ⁃
ated at the high frequency , where the upper and lower pairs 
are conducted complementarily . To simplify the drive cir ⁃
cuit and reduce the cost and complexity of hardware imple ⁃
mentation , the bootstrap drive circuit can be adopted to 
split the power supply into two groups to reduce the number 
of independent isolated power supplies .
2.2 DC Input Case
The proposed converter also supports DC input voltage . For 
the DC input case , the operation of this converter is down ⁃
graded to a three -level boost circuit . In order to preserve the 
five -level scheme under AC input and avoid the problem of 
large common mode inductance required by the two -level 
scheme for DC , the three -level control strategy for DC is ad ⁃
opted after research .
In the proposed three -level control strategy , VCkf shall be 
equal to (1/2)Vdc, namely 200 V. Voltage levels 0, 0.5 Vdc, 
and Vdc are used to synthesize voltage . When duty cycle d<
0.5, 0 and 0.5 Vdc are used to synthesize voltage ; when 0.5<
d<1, 0.5 Vdc and Vdc are used to synthesize voltage . There 
are four switching states as shown in Fig . 2, among which 
0.5 Vdc corresponds to two switching states . The FC is used 
to realize time -sharing in parallel with the upper and lower 
capacitors , so as to achieve voltage balancing between ca ⁃
pacitors C1 and C2. The on -off time of the two switching 
states is the same and the carrier phase -shift modulation 
strategy , phase -shift pulse width modulation (PS-PWM ), is 
adopted . For the DC input case , the three -level switching 
states are shown in Table 2.
2.3 Control Strategy
Regarding the design of a single -phase five -level rectifier with excellent performance , it is necessary to meet the follow ⁃
ing aspects : achieving unit power factor operation and ensur ⁃
ing that the output voltage of the DC side is stable within an 
allowable error range . Therefore , a double closed -loop control 
method is proposed for the 5L ANPC rectifier studied . The AC 
input control block diagram of the circuit topology is shown in 
Fig. 3.
1) Dual control loops : The dual closed -loop control strategy 
of the voltage outer loop and current inner loop is adopted . 
The outer loop voltage control mainly tracks the DC side volt ⁃
age magnitude to realize voltage stability , so as to reduce the 
DC side voltage fluctuation as much as possible . By taking the 
difference between the DC side voltage sampled in real time 
and the reference voltage , the difference is processed and fed 
back to the system by the voltage regulator to control the DC 
voltage of the bus side . The current control target of the inner 
loop is the current magnitude of the filter inductor on the AC 
side. Compared with the given signal of the inner current loop 
obtained after the setting of the outer voltage loop , the power 
factor can be adjusted to keep the current sinusoidal . The sig ⁃
nal processed by the current controller is used as the modu ⁃
lated signal of the main circuit switching device , which is com ⁃
pared with the triangular carrier to generate a PWM wave .
The switching function of the switches S1 and S3 is defined 
as Sf13, the switching function of switches S5 and S7 is respec ⁃▼Table 2. 3-L boost switching table in a direct current (DC) case
V1
V2
V3
V4S1
0
0
1
1S2
1
1
0
0S3
0
0
1
1S4
1
1
0
0S5
0
1
1
1S6
1
1
1
0S7
0
1
0
1S8
1
0
1
0
▲Figure 3. Feedforward control block diagramS1
S2
S3
S4S7
S8S6S5
C2C1
CfcVdc
L
sin θusVdc*/4
V*
ref
VdcK
I*
smi*
sPI PRi*
sis
High -frequencyPower frequency
0
Modula ⁃
tion wave 
calculationcalculationΔm
Δm
+-+
-S7S5
Vfc
PI: proportional -integral    PR : proportion resonant
80