ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4TIAN Ruihan , WU Xuezhi , XU Wenzheng , ZUO Zhiling , CHEN Changqing A Hybrid Five -Level Single -Phase Rectifier with Low Common -Mode Voltage    Research Papers
tively  Sf5 and Sf7, and then the output voltage can be written as :
Vo=[2⋅(Sf13-1)+Sf5+Sf7]×E . (1)
2E is selected as the voltage base value , and then the stan ⁃
dardized output voltage range is [−1, 1]. To make the switches 
S1 and S3 work at the fundamental frequency , Sf13 can be writ ⁃
ten as :
Sf13=ì
í
î1, 1≤vo≤0
0, 1≤vo≤0 , (2)
where vo is the reference value of the single -phase input volt ⁃
age. Phase -shift pulse width modulation (PSPWM ) is adopted 
in this paper with superior ability of FC voltage control . Ac⁃
cording to the principle of PSPWM modulation , the modula ⁃
tion voltage uref of the switches  S5–S8 can be written as :
uref=ì
í
îvo, 0≤vo≤1
vo+1, -1≤vo≤0 . (3)
Under the SPWM modulation , the reference sinusoidal volt ⁃
age of the single -phase output of the converter is :
uo=m⋅Vm⋅sinθ , (4)
where Vm is the AC voltage amplitude when the modulation ra ⁃
tio is maximum , Vm=2E=Vdc/2, and Vdc is the DC side volt ⁃
age; m represents the modulation ratio , where m=um/Vm, 
0≤m≤1, and um is the actual output voltage amplitude ; θ rep⁃
resents the voltage phase angle , where θ=2πft, and f is the 
voltage frequency .
2) FC voltage regulation : One of the major control difficul ⁃
ties of 5L ANPC is to balance the FC voltage to achieve the 
desired output voltage . As can be seen from Fig . 4, the bal ⁃
ance of the voltage at both ends of Cf determines whether five 
levels can be generated normally . Therefore , ensuring the sta ⁃
bility of the flying capacitor voltage is crucial to normal opera ⁃tion. If the voltage fluctuation is too large , the output voltage 
quality cannot be guaranteed , resulting in serious waveform 
distortion and other problems . On the other hand , the voltage 
fluctuation of the flying capacitor will directly affect the volt ⁃
age stress of the switching devices . Under normal working con ⁃
ditions , the voltage borne by each switch is about  Vdc/4, and 
the voltage fluctuation will directly lead to high voltage stress 
of the switches . Therefore , considering the above two consider ⁃
ations , the control goal must be achieved within the range of 
voltage stress constraints and output harmonic distortion con ⁃
straints of switching devices .
There is a 180° phase shift between carriers Cr1 and Cr2, cor⁃
responding to Sx1 and Sx2, respectively . As can be seen from 
the above section , the FC voltage can be adjusted by changing 
the working time of the redundant switching state (V2, V3) or 
(V6, V7) within one carrier cycle , which can be easily realized 
by modifying the modulated waves of Sx1 and Sx2. For example , 
when the Sx1 modulated wave residence time increases ∆mx 
and the Sx2 modulated wave residence time decreases ∆mx, 
there is a total of 2∆mxix current over one current -carrying 
cycle to charge the FC . Define the average terminal voltage of 
a carrier cycle as va and calculate it to satisfy the volt -second 
balance . At this time , the average current through FC can be 
written as :
iˉ
f=2Δt
Ts×io. (5)
The time width is very small and can be adjusted with a 
proportional -integral (PI) controller or a hysteresis compara ⁃
tor, or a constant value can be selected . With this method , the 
FC voltage can be easily stabilized near its reference value .
3 Simulation and Experimental Results
A 5L ANPC rectifier simulation model is established un ⁃
der the MATLAB/Simulink simulation tool , and the simula ⁃
tion analysis is carried out according to the required techni ⁃
cal indicators .
In an AC input condition , it can be seen from Fig . 5 that the 
bridge arm voltage has seven levels , and the common -mode 
voltage is small . At this time , the sinusoidal degree of the in ⁃
put current is good and basically consistent with the voltage 
phase . The power factor is 1, which can realize the unit power 
operation .
In order to verify the effectiveness of the topology and con ⁃
trol strategy in this paper , a 1 kW experimental prototype is 
built as shown in Fig . 6. The input port is located on the right 
side of this figure while the output port on the left side . The 
two vertical circuit boards are control and drive circuits re ⁃
spectively .
Firstly , the feasibility of the modulation strategy adopted in 
the reverse inverter experiment is verified . Fig. 7 shows the 
waveform of the bridge arm levels , the output AC voltage , the 
 ▲Figure 4. Modulation diagram under different modulated wave mx rangeCr1Cr2
mx
Sx1
Sx2
Vn
V6 V5 V7 V5 V6 V8 V7 V8 V6V2 V1 V3 V1 V2 V4 V3 V4 V2
81