ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4GONG Panyin , ZHANG Guidong , ZHANG Zhigang , CHEN Xiao , DING Xuan Research Papers   Research on Fall Detection System Based on Commercial Wi -Fi Devices
formation of the user ’s activity , while the vertical component 
can extract the frequency difference information of the user ’s 
activity . Overall , using a CNN model can extract high -order in ⁃
formation about the user ’s activity in both time and space do ⁃
mains , thus obtaining a high -order representation of the user ’s 
activity .
Let S be the input data set . This work pre -collects sample 
data of falls as well as normal activities and extracts features 
for training , where each sample datum has a time length of T=
2 s and a sampling frequency of 1 000 Hz. Each input sample 
of the classification model s∈S is a DWT 2D spectrum of 5×
2 000, where the sampling length of the time dimension is 2 
000 and the frequency dimension is quantified into 5 levels .
Our work first extracts the spatial features of the 2D spec ⁃
trum using convolutional and pooling layers[30–31].
F=g2(f2(g1(f1(S, θ1),θ2),θ3),θ4),  (4)
where f1 and f2 represent the convolutional layers , g1 and g2 
represent the pooling layers , θ1- θ4 represent the parameters , 
and F represents the extracted spatial features . Specifically , 
we first generate six feature maps of dimension 5×1 880 using 
six convolutional kernels of dimension 1×121, and then gener ⁃
ate six feature maps of dimension 5×940 using the maximum 
pooling layer . Then we continue to generate 16 feature maps 
of dimension 5×200 using 16 convolutional kernels of dimen ⁃
sion 1×5, and then generate 16 feature maps of dimension 5×
100 using the maximum pooling layer . The feature maps are 
then generated using the maximum pooling layer . With two 
convolutional and pooling layers , we extract the spatial fea ⁃
tures of the signal . Next , we spread the dimensionality of the 
features and input them to the subsequent fully connected 
(FC) and Softmax layers for fall detection .
R=softmax(h2(h1(F,θ5),θ6),θ7),(5)
where h1 and h2 represent the fully connected layer and θ5-
θ7  represent the parameters . The FC layers are activated us ⁃
ing rectified linear units (ReLU ) and each FC layer uses a 
dropout mechanism to avoid overfitting . In this way , we use 
features to determine the presence of dropout activity .
The system ’s overall algorithm is shown in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1. Fall detection algorithm
Input : CSIraw, the raw CSI measurements .
Output : Fall detection results .
Signal interpolation :
CSIinterp ← CSIraw
Signal denoise :
CSIdenoise ← CSIinterp
Signal smoothing :
CSIsmooth ← CSIdenoise
Principal component analysis :PCs ← PCA (CSIsmooth) PC2 ← the second PCs calculate DWT 
Spectrum :
DWT spectrum ← DWT (PC2) with demy wavelet base clas ⁃
sify falls and non -falls:
Fall detection results ← deep model (trained model , DWT 
Spectrum )
return Fall detection results
3 System Evaluation
3.1 Experiment Methodology
1) Experimental setup . The goal of our work is to imple ⁃
ment a low -cost, senseless , non -contact fall detection system , 
so this paper uses a commercially available Wi -Fi device for 
the experiments . The experiments are based on a previously 
acquired dataset , the acquisition environment of which is 
shown in Fig . 6, and the size of the common home environ ⁃
ment is 9.6 m×3.6 m. The yellow area is the fall monitoring 
area, and the line -of-sight path between the transmitter and 
receiver is obscured by a door . We use the CSITools platform 
and an Intel 5300  wireless card to collect CSI information . 
The center frequency of the wireless cards for both the trans ⁃
mitter and receiver is set to 5.825 GHz with a bandwidth of 
20 MHz . The receiver is set to monitor modes to receive data 
from the transmitter . The transmitter sends CSI information 
at a frequency of 1 000 Hz.
2) Data acquisition . Our work collects data in the monitor ⁃
ing area in Fig . 6. There are five members in the family of the 
experiment . To obtain data on falls , this work asks partici ⁃
pants to perform the fall action on their own with controlled 
risk. Specifically , participants wear protective equipment and 
pretend to fall unconsciously whenever possible . To obtain 
more data on falls , we also use dummies to simulate real users 
to perform falls . In addition , we collect non -falling activities of 
each user in their daily life . To collect data on normal activi ⁃
ties, users are asked to perform activities in the monitored 
area. In total , about 600 sets of fall samples and 2 000 sets of 
non -fall samples are collected in this work . Among the fall 
▲Figure 6. Experimental environment setupMonitoring area9.6 m
Living room
RxTx
Balcony
Monitoring 
area3.6 m
64