ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4WANG Chongchong , LI Yao , WANG Beibei , CAO Hong , ZHANG Yanyong Special Topic   Point Cloud Processing Methods for 3D Point Cloud Detection Tasks
the BEV method .
3) FPS
Farthest point sampling (FPS) is a commonly used sampling 
algorithm , especially suitable for LiDAR 3D point cloud data . 
It can guarantee uniform sampling of samples , so it is widely 
used. For example , in PointNet++[12], a 3D point cloud deep 
learning framework , sample points are sampled by FPS and 
then clustered as the receptive field ; in VoteNet[19], the scat ⁃
tered points obtained by voting are sampled by FPS and then 
clustered ; in PVN 3D[20], a 6D pose estimation algorithm , it is 
used to select eight feature points of the object to vote and cal ⁃
culate the pose .
The principle of the FPS algorithm is : Given a point cloud 
with N points , a point P0 is selected from the point cloud as 
the starting point to obtain a sampling point set S = {P0}. Then 
we calculate the distance from all points to P0 to form an N-
dimensional array L, select the point corresponding to the 
maximum value as P1, and update the sampling point set S = 
{P0, P1}. Then we calculate the distance from all points to P1. 
For each point Pi, if the distance to P1 is less than L[i], L[i] = 
d(Pi, P1) is updated . Therefore , the stored L in the array is al ⁃
ways the shortest distance from each point to the sampling 
point set S. The point corresponding to the maximum value in 
L is then selected as P2 and the sampling point set S = {P0, P1, 
P2} is updated . The above steps are repeated until N’ target 
sampling points are sampled .
Several evaluation metrics are commonly used to assess the 
performance of an algorithm in 3D object detection . Here are 
some of the most common ones :
• Average precision (AP): This is a widely used metric that 
measures the accuracy of object detection algorithms . It is cal ⁃
culated by computing the area under the precision -recall 
curve . AP is often used to compare the performance of differ ⁃
ent algorithms on a given dataset .
• Intersection over union (IoU): This metric measures the 
overlap between the predicted bounding box and the ground 
truth bounding box . It is calculated as the ratio of the intersec ⁃
tion area to the union area of the two boxes . IoU is often used 
as a threshold to determine whether a detection is true posi ⁃
tive or false positive .
• Mean average precision (mAP ): This metric is similar to 
AP, but it is calculated by taking the average of AP values 
across multiple object categories ; mAP is often used to evalu ⁃
ate the overall performance of an object detection algorithm .
• Precision : This metric measures the proportion of true 
positives among all detections . It is calculated as TP/ (TP + 
FP), where TP is the number of true positives and FP is the 
number of false positives .
• Recall : This metric measures the proportion of true posi ⁃
tives among all ground truth objects . It is calculated as TP/ (TP+
FN), where TP is the number of true positives and FN is the 
number of false negatives .
These metrics are important for evaluating 3D object detec ⁃tion because they provide a quantitative measure of the object 
performance . By comparing these metrics across different algo ⁃
rithms , researchers can identify which ones are most effective 
for a given task .
3 Voxel -Based Point Cloud Processing Methods
Voxel -based 3D point cloud object detection methods con ⁃
vert irregular point clouds into compact -shaped voxelized rep ⁃
resentations and then efficiently extract point cloud features 
for 3D object detection through 3D convolutional neural net ⁃
works . During voxelization , the point cloud data are divided 
into a certain number of voxels , and these voxels are grouped 
and down -sampled . Since the point cloud data need to be 
down -sampled during the voxelization process , some detailed 
information will be lost . The degree of information loss is 
closely related to the chosen resolution .
Although the voxelization process causes information loss , 
it has many advantages . First , the voxelized point cloud data 
will be stored in an orderly manner in memory , which will 
help reduce random memory access and increase data comput ⁃
ing efficiency . Second , thanks to the ordered storage and 
down -sampling of data brought about by voxelization , this type 
of method can handle point cloud data in a large amount . In 
addition , the voxelized data can efficiently be processed by 
spatial convolution , which is beneficial for extracting multi -
scale and multi -level local feature information .
When it comes to voxel -based methods[5, 21–24], VoxelNet[21] 
has to be mentioned , which is a pioneering work . VoxelNet 
proposes a voxel feature encoding (VFE) layer , which groups 
points within a voxel in Fig . 1, and the number of point clouds 
after grouping is not exactly the same . In order to reduce the 
imbalance of the number of point clouds between groups , re⁃
duce the sampling deviation , and save computing resources , 
the grouped point clouds are randomly sampled so that the 
number of points in each group does not exceed a fixed value 
T. In each group , they apply PointNet[11] to learn features on 
each point and aggregate point features to obtain voxel -level 
features .
VFE is an important module . The VFE layer i n Fig . 3 voxel ⁃
izes the original 3D point cloud data and learns voxel -level  
features . This method combines the original point cloud repre ⁃
sentation and 3D voxel representation . After extracting features 
from the point cloud , VoxelNet uses convolutional middle lay ⁃
ers and region proposal networks (RPNs )[25] to generate the final 
3D detection box .
The key innovation of VoxelNeXt[5] is to omit the steps of an ⁃
chor, sparse⁃to⁃dense , RPN , non max suppression (NMS ), etc., 
and directly predict objects from sparse voxel features . Based 
on VoxelNet , VoxelNeXt has better accuracy and a speed 
trade -off than other detectors in nuScenes[26]. Compared with 
the CenterPoint[27], fully sparse 3D object detector (FSD)[28] 
and other methods , VoxelNeXt is more friendly to long -
distance object detection in Fig . 4.
40