ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4YIN Qian , ZHANG Xinfeng , HUANG Hongyue , WANG Shanshe , MA Siwei Special Topic   Lossy Point Cloud Attribute Compression with Subnode -Based Prediction
For the geometry information , in addition to octree coding[7], 
the triangle soup (Trisoup ) coding[8] is used to approximate the 
surface of point clouds as a complement to the octree decom ⁃
position while predictive tree coding[9] is applied to low -delay 
use cases . In terms of attributes , there are mainly two 
branches concerning different advantages . The level of details 
(LODs )-based prediction scheme[10] aims to near -lossless or 
lossless compression and also deliver spatial scalability to G -
PCC. By contrast , the region adaptive hierarchical transform 
(RAHT ) scheme[11] is more suitable for lossy compression with 
much lower complexity . Note that the attribute coding frame ⁃
work RAHT is our main focus in this paper .
As the mainstream attribute compression scheme , the 
RAHT was first proposed in Ref . [12] to provide a hierarchical 
transform structure . In general , the RAHT is an adaptive vari ⁃
ant of the Haar wavelet transform (HWT ), which can evolve 
into a 3D version of the Haar transform when all nodes are oc ⁃
cupied . To furthermore improve the coding efficiency of the 
RAHT , an upsampled transform domain prediction[13] was pro ⁃
posed and has been adopted in the current G -PCC. Specifi ⁃
cally , decoded attributes of the nodes at lower levels (i.e., 
lower resolution ) are used to predict attributes of the nodes at 
higher levels . Then , the prediction residuals can be further 
quantized and entropically encoded . During the transform do ⁃
main prediction stage , in addition to the nodes at lower levels , 
the nodes at current encoding levels can also be applied to 
prediction by means of weighted average[14]. However , the in ⁃
formation of surrounding neighbor nodes has not been fully uti ⁃
lized in certain search ranges , which means that further ex ⁃
ploring the correlations between neighbor nodes can lead to 
better attribute compression performance .
In this paper , we propose a subnode -based prediction 
scheme for point cloud attribute compression , which aims at 
optimizing the upsampled transform domain prediction in 
RAHT . Specifically , we first analyze the spatial distribution 
among neighbor nodes and further explore their reference rela ⁃
tionship . Based on this analysis , the prediction accuracy is fur ⁃
ther improved by exploiting some already -encoded nodes that 
are not used in the current prediction . Then , a weighted aver ⁃
age strategy is introduced for the final attribute prediction of 
the node to be encoded . Extensive simulations are conducted 
and compared with the G -PCC as the anchor . Experimental re ⁃
sults have confirmed that our proposed method outperforms 
both Test Model Category 13 (TMC 13) and Geometry -Based 
Solid Content Test Model (GeS -TM) platforms in terms of all 
point cloud datasets provided by MPEG .
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows . Section 
2 succinctly reviews the related works on attribute coding in 
PCC and describes the current RAHT scheme of G -PCC in 
particular . Our proposed subnode -based prediction approach 
is then presented in Section 3. Section 4 provides experimen ⁃
tal results and analysis and Section 5 concludes this paper .2 Related Work
In this section , we first review the attribute coding schemes 
for PCC . They can be mainly divided into three categories , 
which are projection -based methods , prediction -based meth ⁃
ods and transform -based methods . All of them have been intro ⁃
duced to the MPEG PCC standards . To be more specific , the 
V-PCC utilizes projection -based methods while the other two 
strategies have been adopted by the G -PCC. Since our work 
mainly focuses on the geometry -based PCC , the research re ⁃
lated to video -based PCC is outside the scope of this paper . 
Moreover , the current RAHT scheme and upsampled trans ⁃
form domain prediction of G -PCC are also specifically de ⁃
scribed as our background .
2.1 Point Cloud Attribute Coding Technologies
Among the existing attribute coding approaches , the 
prediction -based technology is one of the popular schemes to 
exploit spatial attribute correlations between points . For ex ⁃
ample , the attribute prediction framework in G -PCC[10] intro ⁃
duces a linear interpolation process by using the k -nearest 
neighbors (KNN ) search algorithm . This prediction method is 
based on a LODs structure , which splits the whole point cloud 
into several subsets (i.e., refinement levels ) according to the 
distance criterion . Based on the LODs , the point clouds are 
then reordered and encoded , where attributes of points are al ⁃
ways predicted by their KNN in the previous LODs . Further ⁃
more , an additional flag is provided in Ref . [15] to allow pre ⁃
dictions by using points at the same level . On top of the pre ⁃
diction framework , a lifting scheme[16] is proposed to promote 
attribute lossy coding . To be more specific , compared with the 
original prediction method , an update operator combined with 
an adaptive quantization strategy is added to improve the pre ⁃
diction accuracy . Attributes of points in lower LODs are al ⁃
ways assigned much higher influence weights because they 
are used as reference points with higher frequency and prob ⁃
ability for predicting points in higher LODs .
Based on the above two prediction schemes , substantial 
works are investigated to further improve the attribute com ⁃
pression efficiency . WEI et al . propose an enhanced intra -
prediction scheme[17] by considering the overall geometric dis ⁃
tribution of the neighbors set . They introduce the centroid -
based criterion to measure the distribution uniformity of 
points in a predictive reference set . Since this scheme predic ⁃
tively encodes the point clouds point by point , the prediction 
errors will accumulate and propagate , especially for points in 
higher LODs . Hence , a bilateral filter is proposed in Ref . [18] 
to update the reconstruction values of decoded points , which 
reduces error propagation when encoding subsequent points . 
In addition , YIN et al . attempt to optimize the predictive 
neighbor set by using the normal of point clouds[19], aiming at 
improving prediction precision for Light Detection and Rang ⁃
ing (LiDAR ) point clouds .
Besides prediction -based methods , other approaches con ⁃
30