ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4YIN Qian , ZHANG Xinfeng , HUANG Hongyue , WANG Shanshe , MA Siwei Lossy Point Cloud Attribute Compression with Subnode -Based Prediction    Special Topic
Nclsncp  reference candidates . Ntbp 1, Ntbp 2 and Ntbp 4 in⁃
clude four Nclsncp  reference candidates . Ntbp 3, Ntbp 5 and 
Ntbp 6 include two Nclsncp  reference candidates . Ntbp 7 has 
no Nclsncp  reference candidate . More detailed information is 
listed as follows :
• Ntbp 0 candidates located in No . 5 and No . 6 subnodes of 
the left Ncppnn , No. 3 and No . 5 subnodes of the bottom 
Ncppnn , and No . 3 and No . 6 subnodes of the front Ncppnn .
• Ntbp 1 candidates located in No . 4 and No . 7 subnodes of 
the left Ncppnn  and No . 2 and No . 7 subnodes of the front 
Ncppnn .
• Ntbp 2 candidates located in No . 4 and No . 7 subnodes of 
the left Ncppnn  and No . 1 and No . 7 subnodes of the bottom 
Ncppnn .
• Ntbp 3 candidates located in No . 5 and No . 6 subnodes of 
the left Ncppnn .
• Ntbp 4 candidates located in No . 2 and No . 7 subnodes of 
the front Ncppnn  and No . 1 and No . 7 subnodes of the bottom 
Ncppnn .
• Ntbp 5 candidates located in No . 3 and No . 6 subnodes of 
the front Ncppnn .
• Ntbp 6 candidates located in No . 3 and No . 5 subnodes of 
the bottom Ncppnn .
Among these reference candidates described above , the 
existing occupied (i.e., non -empty node ) Nclsncp  can be 
searched by using the relative position relationship with each 
corresponding Ntbp  i. In addition to the proposed Nclsncp , 
we also introduce a prediction scheme based on geometric 
distribution by using Npn, Ncppnn  and Nclpnn  at Level l-1 
and Ncpsn  and Nclsncl at Level l, which will be detailed in 
the next section .
3.2 Prediction Based on Geometric Distribution
For each subnode to be predicted Ntbp i in its parent node 
Npn, we propose to predict them according to the distribution 
of their neighbor subnodes in the co -plane parent node neigh ⁃
bor nodes . First of all , the distribution can be mainly divided into the following three categories , a total of six sub -
categories , mainly including :
• Distribution 1: The existing Ncppnn  contains Ncpsn , in⁃
cluding three cases : 1) only one Ncpsn , 2) one Ncpsn  and one 
Nclsncp , and 3) one Ncpsn  and two Nclsncp .
• Distribution 2: The existing Ncppnn  does not contain 
Ncpsn  but contains at least one Nclsncp , including two cases : 
1) only one Nclsncp  and 2) two Nclsncp .
• Distribution 3: The existing Ncppnn  does not contain any 
of Ncpsn  and Nclsncp .
Then , the corresponding target prediction mode can be de ⁃
termined by the three types of neighbor subnode distribu ⁃
tions . For each subnode to be predicted , in addition to their 
Npn  that will definitely participate in the prediction , the pre ⁃
diction reference of other nodes is shown in Fig . 5. Specifi ⁃
cally , for Ncppnn , we will first determine whether it contains 
Ncpsn , and if so (i.e., satisfying Distribution 1), the attribute 
value of Ncpsn  will be used as the prediction instead of the at ⁃
tribute value of its corresponding Ncppnn  whether it contains 
Nclsncp  or not . Then , if there is no Ncpsn  in Ncppnn , we fur ⁃
ther determine whether it contains at least Nclsncp , and if so 
(i.e., satisfying Distribution 2), the average attribute value of 
Nclsncp  will be used as the prediction instead of the attribute 
value of its corresponding Ncppnn . If it contains neither of the 
above two conditions (i.e., satisfying Distribution 3), the attri ⁃
bute value of Ncppnn  will be directly used for prediction . Be⁃
sides Ncppnn , for Ncppnn , the attribute value of Nclsncl  will 
be used as the prediction instead of the attribute value of its 
corresponding Nclpnn  if it has Nclsncl , which is the same as 
the current G -PCC.
4 Experiments
To validate the effectiveness of the proposed method , we 
implement our subnode -based prediction scheme on top of the 
latest MPEG G -PCC reference software TMC 13-v22.0[28] and 
GeS -TM -v2.0[29]. Extensive simulations have been conducted 
in accordance with the common test conditions (CTCs )[30] 
▲Figure 4. Schematic diagram of co -line subnodes of each subnode to be encoded in the same parent node , where the position indexes are organized 
according to the Morton orderMorton order
Subnode to be predicted Co-line subnode Parent node Co-plane parent neighbor nodez
y
x
33