ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4SHI Wenzhe , LIU Yanbin , ZHOU Qinfen Special Topic   Local Scenario Perception and Web AR Navigation
ing problem , that is , learning a representation that makes 
matched features in the measurement space as close as pos ⁃
sible and unmatched features as far as possible[9]. Learning -
based descriptors largely avoid the need for human experience 
and prior knowledge . An existing feature description method 
based on learning is classified into two types : measurement 
learning[10–11] and descriptor learning[12–13]. A difference lies 
in the output content of a descriptor .
Metric learning methodology is used for metric discrimina ⁃
tion for similarity measurement , while descriptor learning gener ⁃
ates descriptor representations from the original image or image 
block . In these methods , SuperGlue[14] is a network that can per ⁃
form feature matching and filter out extrinsic points at the same 
time, where feature matching is implemented by solving a differ ⁃
ential optimization transfer problem , a loss function is con ⁃
structed by using a graph neural network , and a flexible content 
aggregation mechanism is proposed based on an attention 
mechanism . Therefore , SuperGlue can simultaneously sense a 
potential three -dimensional scene and perform feature match ⁃
ing. LoFTR[15] uses transformer modules with a self -attentive 
layer and a cross -attentive layer to process dense local features 
extracted from the convolutional network by first extracting 
dense matches at low feature resolution (1/8 of the image dimen ⁃
sion) and then selecting the matches with high confidence from 
those matches using a relevant method to refine them to a high -
resolution sub -pixel level . In this way , the large acceptance 
field of the model enables the converted signature to reflect the 
context and location information , and the matching is imple ⁃
mented through multiple layers of self -attention and cross -
attention . Many methods integrate feature detection , feature de ⁃
scription , and feature matching into the matching pipeline in an 
end -to-end manner , which helps improve matching performance .
Visual orientation is a problem of estimating a 6-DoF camera 
pose from which a given image is taken relative to a reference 
scene representation . The classical approach to visual position ⁃
ing is structure -based , meaning that they rely on the 3D recon ⁃
struction of the environment (that is , point clouds ) and use local 
feature matching to establish a mapping relationship between 
the query image and 3D map . Image retrieval can be used to re ⁃
duce the search space by only considering the most similar ref ⁃
erence images rather than all possibilities . Another approach is 
to interpolate or estimate the relative posture between the que ⁃
ried and retrieved reference images directly from the reference 
images , which is independent of the 3D reconstruction results . 
In the scene point regression method , a correspondence be ⁃
tween a two -dimensional pixel position and a three -dimensional 
point may be directly determined by using a deep neural net ⁃
work (DNN ), and the position of a camera is calculated simi ⁃
larly to a structure -based method . Modern scene regression 
benefits from 3D reconstruction during training but does not de ⁃
pend on it . Finally , the absolute posture regression method uses 
DNN end -to-end posture estimation . These approaches differ in 
generalization capabilities and location accuracy .In addition , some methods rely on 3D reconstruction , while 
others only require reference images with position marks . The 
advantage of using a 3D reconstruction is that the position gen ⁃
erated is very accurate , and the disadvantage is that these 3D 
reconstructions are sometimes difficult to obtain or even more 
difficult to maintain . For example , if the environment changes , 
the position needs to be updated . For classical structure -based 
work , reference may be made to a general visual positioning 
framework proposed by SARLIN et al .[16] The framework can 
predict both local features and global descriptors by using a 
hierarchical positioning method , so as to implement accurate 
6-DoF positioning . Using a coarse -to-fine localization pattern , 
the method first performs a global search to obtain location as ⁃
sumptions and then matches local features in these candidate 
locations . This layered approach saves uptime for real -time op ⁃
erations . This method presents a hierarchical feature network 
(HF -Net), which jointly estimates local and global features , 
shares computation to the maximum extent , and uses a multi -
task still compression model .
3 Web AR Navigation System Based on Lo ⁃
cal Scenario Perception
This paper presents an indoor Web AR navigation system 
architecture based on the local point cloud map . By delivering 
the space local point cloud map to the web front end for posi ⁃
tioning , the real -time positioning can be implemented only by 
using the computing power of the web front end , which has the 
characteristics of short time consumption and accurate posi ⁃
tioning . In addition , this paper proposes an optimization solu ⁃
tion to the local point cloud map , including specific measures 
such as descriptor deduplication and outlier elimination , 
which improves the quality of the point cloud . Finally , interpo ⁃
lation and smoothing effects are introduced to local map local ⁃
ization to enhance an anchoring effect and improve smooth ⁃
ness and appearance of user experience . In a small -scale in ⁃
door scenario , a localization frequency on an iPhone 13 may 
reach 30 fps, and localization precision is within 50 cm. In 
this paper , a function of implementing real -time positioning by 
using only Web front -end computing power is proposed for the 
first time . It outperforms existing mainstream visual -based po ⁃
sitioning for AR navigation , GPS -based positioning , and multi -
sensor fusion positioning . The proposed method can signifi ⁃
cantly save computing resources without the help of any addi ⁃
tional sensors or cloud computing devices . It takes a very 
short time to meet the real -time requirements and provide us ⁃
ers with smooth positioning , improving user experience .
Fig. 2 shows the proposed Web AR indoor navigation system 
based on local point cloud map positioning . This system con ⁃
sists of three modules : offline map creation , server , and web .
The offline map creation module is mainly responsible for 
the reconstruction of a point cloud map . Three -dimensional re ⁃
construction is implemented by photographing an environmen ⁃
tal image that needs to be reconstructed and then scale -based 
56