ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4WANG Chongchong , LI Yao , WANG Beibei , CAO Hong , ZHANG Yanyong Special Topic   Point Cloud Processing Methods for 3D Point Cloud Detection Tasks
(OcTr )[29] algorithm first performs self -attention on the top 
level , constructs a dynamic octree on the hierarchical pyra ⁃
mid, and recursively propagates to the lower layer constrained 
by octants . This method can not only capture rich features 
from coarse -grained to fine -grained , but also control the com ⁃
putational complexity . Extensive experiments are conducted 
on Waymo Open Dataset[30] and Karlsruhe Institute of Technol ⁃
ogy and Toyota Technological Institute (KITTI ) Dataset[31], and 
OcTr achieves new state -of-the-art results .
The performance of different detection models in three cat ⁃
egories (Car, Pedestrian , and Cyclist ) on the KITTI dataset[31] 
is listed in Table 1. The voxel -based method can achieve ex ⁃
cellent performance by improving the processing method after 
extracting voxel features . Compared with VoxelNet , SECOND 
is modified to a sparse embedded convolution method to ob ⁃
tain a performance improvement . PointPillars proposes a way 
to balance accuracy and computational efficiency . A more ap ⁃
propriate voxel division method can achieve better results . 
The improvement made by OcTr is to use the transformer and 
the special octree data structure , which achieves better re ⁃
sults. VoxelNeXt directly predicts objects based on sparse 
voxel features , without the need for sparse -to-dense conver ⁃
sion operations . In summary , voxelization is a method that can 
process large -scale point cloud data quickly and efficiently . 
The idea of voxelization is to process the unstructured point 
cloud into structured data and use the characteristics of CNN 
to process structured data to extract features from the point 
cloud . But nothing is perfect . Detailed information may be lost 
during the voxelization process , and voxelization is a computa ⁃
tionally expensive step .
4 Point -Based Point Cloud Processing Methods
The point -based 3D point cloud object detection method is 
a method to perform object detection on the raw point cloud 
data. This approach preserves the unstructured form of the 
point cloud , but achieves a more compact representation by 
sampling the point cloud from its original size to smaller fixed -
size N points . Sampling methods usually include random sam ⁃
pling and FPS , as well as several innovative sampling point 
methods[32].
Random sampling is achieved by randomly drawing points 
until N points are selected . But random sampling suffers from the scenario where points in denser regions of the point cloud 
are sampled more frequently than points in sparser regions of 
the point cloud . The FPS algorithm can mitigate this bias by 
using an iterative process to select points based on the fur ⁃
thest distance criterion . In each iteration , FPS first calculates 
the minimum distance from the unsampled point to the point 
set (the first point is randomly sampled and the second point 
is the point furthest from the first point ) and then selects the 
furthest unsampled point .The final result is a more represen ⁃
tative point cloud , but this method also suffers from expensive 
calculation costs .
The effect of PointNet[11] in point cloud -based methods is 
similar to that of VoxelNet in voxel -based methods . PointNet 
is a neural network -based approach that directly processes 
point cloud data for classification and segmentation . Operat ⁃
ing directly on the raw point cloud eliminates unnecessary 
transformations of the data representation .
PointNet is a simple yet efficient point cloud feature extrac ⁃
tor. It has three key modules : the symmetry function for unor ⁃
dered input , local and global information aggregation , and 
alignment network . Key to PointNet is that it can process un ⁃
sorted point cloud data , when the disorder of point cloud is 
challenging in point cloud processing .
Based on Pointnet , Pointnet++[12] provides a hierarchical 
point cloud processing method that can effectively learn the lo ⁃
cal structure in the point cloud . Pointnet++ can handle more 
complex tasks such as scene segmentation , shape part segmen ⁃
tation , and 3D object detection .
The key technology of Pointnet++ is the introduction of hier ⁃
archical processing . Pointnet++ adopts a layered architecture . 
The entire point cloud is first sampled and then subdivided 
into smaller local areas and local features are learned on these 
local areas (set abstraction ). Finally , these local features are 
aggregated to obtain global features . A Pointnet++ network 
consists of an encoder and a decoder . The encoder contains a 
collection abstraction module and the decoder contains a fea ⁃
ture propagation module .
These two methods have promoted the application of point 
cloud data in the field of 3D vision and achieved remarkable 
research progress . There are also some extended meth ⁃
ods[33–35]. Based on the PointNet series network , the feature 
extraction is directly applied to the original point cloud data . 
▼Table 1. Performance of VoxelNet , SECOND , PointPillars and OcTr on the KITTI dataset[31]
Method
VoxelNet[21]
SECOND[22]
PointPillars[24]
OcTr[29]Modality
LiDAR
LiDAR
LiDAR
LiDARAPCar
Easy
81.97
83.13
79.05
88.43Moderate
65.46
73.66
74.99
78.57Hard
62.85
66.20
68.30
77.16APPedestrian
Easy
57.86
51.07
52.08
61.49Moderate
53.42
42.56
43.53
57.17Hard
48.87
37.29
41.49
52.35APCyclist
Easy
67.17
70.51
75.78
85.29Moderate
47.65
53.85
59.07
70.44Hard
45.11
46.90
52.92
66.17
AP: Average precision
KITTI : Karlsruhe Institute of Technology and Toyota Technological Institute
LiDAR : light detection and rangingOcTr : Octree -Based Transformer
SECOND : sparsely embedded convolutional detection
42