ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4YIN Qian , ZHANG Xinfeng , HUANG Hongyue , WANG Shanshe , MA Siwei Lossy Point Cloud Attribute Compression with Subnode -Based Prediction    Special Topic
tribute to reducing the attribute spatial redundancy in a trans ⁃
form domain . For instance , to utilize the 2D discrete cosine 
transform (DCT), ZHANG et al . project the point clouds onto 
two -dimensional grids for color compression[20]. This 3D-to-2D-
based method inevitably fails to fully consider three -
dimensional spatial correlations . Hence , 3D-DCT -based meth ⁃
ods are developed continuously , such as Refs . [21] and [22].
Apart from DCT , more complex transforms are introduced to 
attribute coding for PCC . The graph Fourier transform (GFT) is 
first applied to PCC in Ref . [23], which is an extension of the 
Karhunen -Loève transform (KLT). The graphs are constructed 
based on octree -decomposed point clouds , where the graph La ⁃
placian matrix can be deduced by connecting the points within 
small neighborhoods . Then attributes are transformed , quan ⁃
tized , and entropically encoded . Since the coding efficiency of 
the graph -based methods outperforms the DCT -based method , 
extensive follow -up works have been carried out on the attri ⁃
bute graph transform coding . Specifically , an optimized graph 
transform method[24] is proposed to improve the Laplacian spar ⁃
sity combined with k -dimensional tree partition and an RDO -
based quantization process . Then , XU et al .[25] introduce the 
normal of point clouds , in addition to geometric distance , to 
measure the connectivity between neighbor points . Moreover , 
they propose a predictive generalized graph transform 
scheme[26] to eliminate the temporary redundancy . Although 
the graph -based transform approaches exhibit superior coding 
performance , complicated matrix decomposition leads to real -
time difficulties in PCC .
Taking the complexity into consideration , RAHT is pro ⁃
posed in Ref . [12] and finally adopted in G -PCC as the funda ⁃
mental framework . Our work is closely related to the RAHT 
and corresponding techniques , which will be concisely de ⁃
scribed in Section 2.2.
2.2 RAHT in MPEG G -PCC
RAHT is a Haar -inspired method with a hierarchical struc ⁃
ture, which can be regarded as an extension of 1D HWT . The 
core of HWT is to represent functions and signals by using a 
series of wavelets or basis functions . Specifically , suppose a 
signal S has N elements . The HWT decomposes the original 
signal S into low -pass and high -pass components , which can 
be calculated as follows :
é
ëêêêêù
ûúúúúDC
AC=1
2é
ëêêêê ù
ûúúúú11
-11é
ëêêêêù
ûúúúúS2n
S2n+1 , (1)
where S2n and S2n+1 denote two adjacent elements of signal s. 
The direct current (DC) and alternating current (AC) coefficients 
represent the low -frequency and high -frequency parts of the sig ⁃
nal respectively . Generally speaking , the energy of the signal af ⁃
ter the HWT is mainly concentrated on a few coefficients , espe ⁃
cially the DC coefficients , and then appropriate quantization and 
entropy coding can achieve the purpose of compression .In order to apply HWT for 3D point cloud attribute com ⁃
pression , 1D HWT is applied sequentially along the x, y, and z 
directions . Specifically , the RAHT is conducted on a hierar ⁃
chical octree based on the geometry information of point 
clouds , which starts from the leaf nodes (i.e., highest resolu ⁃
tion level ) and proceeds backward until the octree ’s root node 
(i.e., lowest resolution level ). In each level , the RAHT is ap ⁃
plied to each unit node containing 2×2×2 subnodes . As shown 
in Fig . 1, the unit node is transformed along three directions to 
generate both DC and AC coefficients , where the DC coeffi ⁃
cients along each direction will continue to be transformed 
while the AC coefficients will be output to be quantized and 
encoded . Note that the number of coefficients is the same as 
the number of occupied subnodes in a unit node , including 
one DC coefficient and several AC coefficients . Then , the DC 
coefficient obtained from the node at Level l will be used as 
the attribute of the node at Level l-1 for further transformation . 
After processing all unit nodes (N occupied nodes ) at Level l, 
N generated DC coefficients (denoted as LLL ) continue to be 
transformed until the root node .
It should be noted that , in the current G -PCC, the dyadic 
RAHT decomposition[27] is adopted to adapt to more compli ⁃
cated textures . The whole process of the dyadic RAHT is ex ⁃
actly the same as the normal RAHT mentioned above , except 
that the AC coefficients obtained in each direction will be fur ⁃
ther transformed like the DC coefficients . Another point to be 
emphasized is that , unlike HWT in Eq . (1), the wavelet trans ⁃
form kernel for RAHT is modified according to
RAHT(w1, w2)=1
w1+w2é
ëê
êêê
êê ù
ûú
úúú
úú w1 w2
-w2 w1 , (2)
▲Figure 1. Transform procedure of a unit node along three directions . 
The DC coefficient is denoted as L and H represents the AC coefficient . 
LL and LH represent the DC coefficient and AC coefficient of DC coeffi ⁃
cient respectively , and so onAC: alternating current     DC : direct currentAlong the first direction
AC: alternating current     DC : direct currentNode in Level l
Along the second direction
Along the third directionDC coefficients L
DC coefficients LL
DC coefficients LLL
Transform for Level -lQuantize and encodeAC coefficients LLHAC coefficients LHAC coefficients H
31