ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4FENG Hailin , HAN Jing , HUANG Leijun , SHENG Ziwei , GONG Zican Research Papers   Incident and Problem Ticket Clustering and Classification Using Deep Learning
pecially at the beginning when the problem was initially re ⁃
ported to resolve the issue efficiently . The specific technical 
challenge of classifying an early ticket is that the only avail ⁃
able feature is problem description .
2 Related Work
Since the day when computer systems were created , IT op ⁃
eration has been a critical issue . With the prevalence of on ⁃
line services , in order to minimize system downtime and 
maintain premium service level agreements , IT operation 
plays a central role in achieving such a goal . Especially in to ⁃
day’s highly distributed multi -layered cloud environment , it 
is untrivial to effectively find the matching departments to re ⁃
solve the issue .
Artificial intelligence has been applied in IT operations , es⁃
pecially in anomaly detection[11–12], problem troubleshoot ⁃
ing[13–14], and security[15–16]. A few works have attempted to 
improve the efficiency of ticket dispatching . BOTEZATU et al .
[5] tried to find the most cost -effective agent for ticket resolu ⁃
tion, rather than finding a matching group or department . 
SHAO et al .[17] focused on the transfer information in ticket 
resolution and formulated a model based on prior resolution 
steps . AGARWAL et al .[18] used a supported vector machine 
and a discriminative term to predict the matching department . 
While we use ticket descriptions and other attributes to find 
the best department , our solution is quite different from the 
previous works .
In terms of ticket analysis , there are only a few works on 
alerts or ticket clustering . LIN et al .[19] used graph theory and 
similarity measures as Jaccard as the cluster mechanism . 
MANI et al .[20] proposed a technique combining latent seman ⁃
tic indexing and a hierarchical n-gram algorithm . AGARWAL 
et al.[21] used a mixture of data mining , machine learning , and 
natural language parsing techniques to extract and analyze un ⁃
structured tests in IT tickets . JAN et al .[22] proposed a frame ⁃
work for text analysis in an IT service environment . We exam ⁃
ine the clustering characteristics to discover the content of the 
ticket descriptions specific to the system under investigation . 
Our approach is generic to all systems with minor adjustments 
of synonyms and user dictionaries . When it comes to cluster ⁃
ing itself , we believe our dataset is also unique as it is from 
the latest container -based cloud environment which is more 
complicated than prior systems .
3 Design of Clustering System
We apply different topic modeling algorithms to cluster the 
tickets based on their descriptions and compare their perfor ⁃
mance by calculating their sum of square error (SSE) and sil ⁃
houette scores . The clustering results indicate the number of 
major topics in the ticket description corpus . Since it is an un ⁃
supervised learning process , it saves great effort from data an ⁃
notation . For ticket classification , word embedding models 
have shown much better performance . Therefore , we only adopt the supervised approach using a pre -trained BERT 
model[6] which is fine -tuned with domain -specific labeled data .
Fig. 1 illustrates the overall steps we perform ticket descrip ⁃
tion clustering . First , data preprocessing is performed by ex ⁃
tracting texts , merging synonyms , removing stop words , etc. Af⁃
ter tokenizing the texts , we construct 4 types of bags of words 
(BoW ), including binary BoW , term frequency (TF) BoW , term 
frequency inverse document frequency (TF-IDF)[7] BoW , and 
expert -weighted BoW . For each of the BoW , we apply principal 
component analysis (PCA) to check for clustering possibility 
and use K -Means to cluster the topics . We also perform latent 
dirichlet allocation (LDA )[8] for topic extraction and modeling . 
BoW : bag of words
IDF: inverse document frequency
kNN: k-nearest neighborLDA : latent Dirichlet allocation
PCA: principal component analysis
TF: term frequency
▲Figure 1. Data analysis flowTraining data
(known tickets ）
Extract texts of related attributes
Tokenize the texts , merge synonyms , 
remove stop -words and count word 
occurrences
Select top tokens for each attribute
Compute 
binary 
BoWCompute 
TF BoWCompute 
TF-IDF 
BoWCompute 
expert -
weighted 
BoWFor each attribute of each ticket , 
count the occurrence of each token
For each ticket , compute the weighted sum of the 
word -frequency vectors from each attribute
Apply PCA on the word -frequency matrix and check 
for clustering possibility by inspecting scatter plots
Apply K -means 
clusteringApply LDA topic 
extraction
Clustering 
modelLDA topic
model
Classify with kNN Determine the topic PreprocessUnknown data
（new tickets ）
70