ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4SHI Wenzhe , LIU Yanbin , ZHOU Qinfen Local Scenario Perception and Web AR Navigation    Special Topic
structing a sparse point cloud image in the three -dimensional 
reconstruction . A complete three -dimensional reconstruction 
process generally uses a Multi -View Stereo (MVS ) algorithm 
to implement dense reconstruction . As shown in Fig . 1, SFM 
is mainly used for creating diagrams and restoring the struc ⁃
ture of the scenario . According to the difference of image data 
processing flows , SFM can be divided into four types : incre ⁃
mental SFM , global SFM , distributed SFM , and hybrid SFM . 
The latter two types are usually used to resolve a very large -
scale data scenario and are based on the former two types . In⁃
cremental SFM can be divided into two steps . The first step is 
to find the initial correspondence to extract robust and well -
distributed features to match the image pairs , and the second 
step is to implement incremental reconstruction to estimate 
image position and 3D structure by image registration , triangu ⁃
lation , bundle adjustment (BA), and abnormal value removal . 
The initial corresponding abnormal value needs to be removed 
through geometric verification . Generally , when the number of 
restored image frames accounts for a certain proportion , global 
BA is performed . Because of the incremental processing of 
BAs, the precision of the incremental SFM is usually rela ⁃
tively high and the robustness is relatively good . However , 
with the increase of the images , the processing scale of the 
BAs becomes larger and larger . Therefore , there are also dis ⁃
advantages such as low efficiency and large memory usage . In 
addition , the incremental SFM also has the problem of accu ⁃
mulative drift because of the incremental addition of images . 
Typical SFM frameworks include Bundler and COLMAP .
CAO et al .[1] proposed a fast and robust feature -tracking 
method for 3D reconstruction using SFM . First , to reduce calcu ⁃
lation costs , a large number of image sets are clustered into 
some small image sets by using a feature clustering method to 
avoid some incorrect feature matching . Second , a joint search 
set method is used to implement fast feature matching , which 
may further save calculation time of feature tracking . Third , a 
geometric constraint method is proposed to remove an abnormal 
value from a track generated by a feature tracking method . This 
method can deal with the influence of image distortion , scale change and illumination change . LINDENBERGER et al .[2] di⁃
rectly align low -level image information from multiple views , 
optimize feature point positions using depth feature metrics af ⁃
ter feature matching , and perform BA during incremental recon ⁃
struction using similar depth feature metrics . In this process , an 
image -dense feature map is first extracted by using a convolu ⁃
tion network , two -dimensional observation of the same three -
dimensional point in different images is obtained using sparse 
feature matching , the location of a corresponding feature point 
in the image is adjusted , SFM reconstruction is performed ac ⁃
cording to the adjusted location , and a residual of SFM optimi ⁃
zation in the reconstruction process changes from a reprojection 
error to a depth feature measurement error . This improvement 
is robust to large -scale detection of noise and appearance 
changes because it optimizes feature measurement errors for 
dense features based on neural network prediction .
Some accumulated drift problems are solved through global 
SFM. In an image matching process , a basic/essential matrix be ⁃
tween images is obtained , and relative rotation and relative 
translation between the images may be obtained by means of de ⁃
composition . Global rotation can be restored by using relative 
rotation as a constraint . Global panning can then be restored us ⁃
ing the global rotation and relative panning constraints . Be⁃
cause the number of times of building and optimizing global BA 
is small , the efficiency of global SFM is high . However , it is dif ⁃
ficult to solve the translation average because the relative trans ⁃
lation constraint only constrains the translation direction and 
the scale is unknown . In addition , the translation average solv ⁃
ing process is sensitive to external points . Therefore , in actual 
applications , the global SFM is limited .
2.2 Space Visual Matching Technology
How to extract robust , accurate and sufficient image corre ⁃
spondence is the key problem of 3D reconstruction . With the 
development of deep learning , the image matching methods 
based on learning achieve excellent performance . A typical 
image matching process is divided into three steps : feature ex ⁃
traction , feature description , and feature matching .
Detection methods based on deep convolution networks 
search for points of interest by building response maps , includ ⁃
ing the supervisory method[3–4], self -supervised method[5–6], 
and unsupervised method[7–8]. The supervisory approach uses 
an anchor to guide the training process of a model , but the per ⁃
formance of the model is likely limited by the anchor construc ⁃
tion approach . Self -supervised and unsupervised methods do 
not require manual annotation of data , and they focus on geo ⁃
metric constraints between image pairs .
The feature descriptor uses local information around the 
point of interest to establish a correct correspondence between 
image features . Due to the ability of information extraction 
and representation , depth techniques have also performed 
well in the description of features . The feature description 
problem based on deep learning is usually a supervised learn ⁃
 ▲Figure 1. Shooting a panoramic video of the scene
55