ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4ZHOU Yingjie , ZHANG Zicheng , SUN Wei , MIN Xiongkuo , ZHAI Guangtao Perceptual Quality Assessment for Point Clouds : A Survey    Special Topic
Perceptual Quality Assessment for Perceptual Quality Assessment for 
Point Clouds Point Clouds :: A Survey A Survey
ZHOU Yingjie , ZHANG Zicheng , SUN Wei , 
MIN Xiongkuo , ZHAI Guangtao
(Institute of Image Communication and Network Engineering , Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University , Shanghai 200240 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304002
https : //kns .cnki.net/kcms/detail/ 34.1294 .TN.20231120 .1548 .002.html, 
published online November 21, 2023
Manuscript received : 2023 -10-07
Abstract : A point cloud is considered a promising 3D representation that has achieved wide applications in several fields . However , quality 
degradation inevitably occurs during its acquisition and generation , communication and transmission , and rendering and display . Therefore , 
how to accurately perceive the visual quality of point clouds is a meaningful topic . In this survey , we first introduce the point cloud to empha ⁃
size the importance of point cloud quality assessment (PCQA ). A review of subjective PCQA is followed , including common point cloud distor ⁃
tions , subjective experimental setups and subjective databases . Then we review and compare objective PCQA methods in terms of model -
based and projection -based . Finally , we provide evaluation criteria for objective PCQA methods and compare the performances of various 
methods across multiple databases . This survey provides an overview of classical methods and recent advances in PCQA .
Keywords : point cloud quality assessment ; PCQA databases ; subjective quality assessment ; objective quality assessment
Citation  (Format 1): ZHOU Y J , ZHANG Z C , SUN W , et al . Perceptual quality assessment for point clouds : a survey [J]. ZTE Communica ⁃
tions , 2023 , 21(4): 3–16. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304002
Citation (Format 2): Y. J. Zhou , Z. C. Zhang , W. Sun, et al ., “Perceptual quality assessment for point clouds : a survey ,” ZTE Communications , 
vol. 21, no. 4, pp. 3–16, Dec. 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304002 .
1 Introduction
In recent years , three -dimensional (3D) data have gar ⁃
nered increasing attention due to its indispensable role in 
various applications , ranging from computer graphics and 
computer -aided design to autonomous navigation , aug ⁃
mented reality , and environmental modeling . Point clouds , as 
one of the fundamental representations of 3D data , have 
emerged as a prominent data structure capable of capturing 
the spatial information of objects and scenes with unparalleled 
fidelity . A point cloud is a collection of points in a 3D coordi ⁃
nate system , where each point represents a precise location in 
space , often obtained through laser scanning , photogrammetry , 
or other 3D sensing techniques . Previous research[1–3] has 
demonstrated the inestimable value of such data -rich struc ⁃
tures in generating accurate 3D models , facilitating object rec ⁃
ognition , and enabling realistic visual simulations .
While the adoption of point clouds has led to groundbreaking 
advancements in numerous fields , ensuring the quality and fi ⁃
delity of these data representations poses significant challenges . 
As shown in Fig . 1, point clouds are not immune to quality deg ⁃
radation , particularly during the process of generation and trans ⁃
mission . The transfer of point clouds across networks , storage 
systems , or different software applications can introduce various 
forms of distortion , noise , and loss of information , which may substantially impact the utility and accuracy of the 3D models 
they represent . Therefore , point cloud quality assessment 
(PCQA ) is of great importance in the research and development 
process . The need to assess the fidelity , integrity , and reliability 
of point clouds is becoming increasingly evident to preserve the 
quality of 3D data in practical applications . The availability of 
high -quality point clouds is fundamental to the success of down ⁃
stream tasks (e.g., 3D reconstruction , object recognition , and 
analysis ), as well as to the overall efficiency and robustness of 
various 3D-based systems .
Based on these considerations , this paper aims to provide 
insights into how point cloud quality can be comprehensively 
assessed . By carefully reviewing and summarizing existing 
methods and research results , we provide an overview of the 
current developments in the field of PCQA . In addition , this 
▲Figure 1. Illustration of how distortions are generated in point cloudsSensor noise
Calibration error
GenerationCompression
Downsampling
TransmissionWrong color mapping
Dizziness and discomfort
Display Viewer
03