ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4SHI Wenzhe , LIU Yanbin , ZHOU Qinfen Local Scenario Perception and Web AR Navigation    Special Topic
restoration is performed , to finally obtain a sparse point cloud 
map and save the sparse point cloud map in the format of a 3D 
point plus a descriptor . Then , the point cloud is visualized and 
divided according to the preset interest point when the user 
wants to perform a model anchoring display . The related geo -
fence information is set , which is mainly used for service expe ⁃
rience after entering the local point cloud range . Currently , 
the geo -fence range is mainly 3 m–5 m and established ac ⁃
cording to a specific scenario . The sparse point cloud is di ⁃
vided into multiple local point cloud maps . Next , the point 
cloud is optimized by using descriptor deduplication and out ⁃
lier removal and is stored in the bin format .
The server performs positioning on the captured initial posi ⁃
tioning picture to obtain an initial positioning posture of the 
camera , so as to determine a local point cloud closest to an ini ⁃
tial positioning point position . The local point cloud communi ⁃
cation service is responsible for delivering the specific local 
point cloud to the Web front end in accordance with the re ⁃
quest of the Web front end for the local point cloud .
The Web front end sends a request to the server end by us ⁃
ing a local point cloud communication service , receives spe ⁃
cific local point cloud information , and then captures an image of a video frame by using a local point cloud positioning system 
of the Web front end . The Web front end obtains correspond ⁃
ing camera position information for positioning and then ren ⁃
ders a navigation route and a corresponding material based on 
the camera position information obtained by positioning . Fig. 2 
shows how to implement AR navigation through the local cloud .
The time consumption of each step of the local point cloud 
positioning algorithm is collected and optimized , including im ⁃
age data transmission on a Web end , improvement of a feature 
extraction algorithm , feature matching optimization , etc. Table 1 
shows the performance test of cloud positioning of different mod ⁃
els at different point sizes . In the point cloud of 0.9 MB, the opti ⁃
mized algorithm can reach 91 fps on an iPhone 13.
The redundancy of the point cloud size greatly affects the 
accuracy of the local point cloud positioning algorithm . There ⁃
fore, two local point cloud optimization solutions are designed : 
1) Using filter feature descriptors to remove duplicates (Fig. 3);
2) Using test data to filter real and valid point cloud data and 
remove redundancy .
Considering that the positioning algorithm is an optimization 
problem (reducing a reprojection error ), it is extremely affected 
by noise , and therefore a final obtained track is not smooth 
▼Table 1. Different mobile phone models in frames per second
Descriptor Size/MB
0.9Mobile Phone Model
MEIZU 11
OnePlus 6
Xiaomi 11
Iphone 13Extracting ORB Features
1.052
0.876
0.557
0.098Feature Matching (KNN )
38
37
19
8PNP
4
4
2
2Total Calculated Time/ms
50
46
26
11Frames per Second/fps
20
21
38
90
KNN : k-Nearest Neighbor        ORB : oriented FAST and rotated BRIEF          PNP : Perspective -n-Points
Obtain the initial position sum by referring to orbslam
Last position optimization (using pnp )Considering mismatches may occur each time when positioning 
data is placed on the web , the previous frame data is introduced 
and modified for tracingICP registration is performed continuously during vehicle navigation , and the 
problem is solved based on the previous frame .
Orbslam tracing obtains the initial posture first and is optimizing the posture
Ground truth
Database .db
Initial positioningImage
Continuous positioning
Query image
IMUWebDownloadBack -end
positioningColmap -ORB
Outlier removal3D point and 
descriptor
Continuous positioningContinuous positioningPoint -cloud division
(density -based/grid -
based )
Point -cloud map 
storagePoint -cloud pre ⁃
diction process
Previous frame 
of image dataPoint -cloud compres ⁃
sion (ceiling floor point 
removal )
DatabasePoint -cloud storage architec ⁃
ture (the number of 3D points 
and number of descriptors )
One to many
Back -end
positioningColmap -siftGPU 
scale recovery9 10 11
0 1  2  
3 4 5
6 7 8
▲Figure 2. Local scenario perception and the proposed web navigation system architectureICP: Iterative Closest Point      IMU : Inertial Measurement Unit      ORB : oriented FAST and rotated BRIEF
57