ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4ZOU Wenjie , GU Chengming , FAN Jiawei , HUANG Cheng , BAI Yaxian Research Papers   Beyond Video Quality : Evaluation of Spatial Presence in 360 -Degree Videos
these studies . On the other hand , some researchers managed 
to evaluate the sense of presence using physiological sig ⁃
nals[14–17]. However , this type of method requires professional 
equipment and the reliability of experimental results strongly 
relies on the accuracy of the devices .
To the best of our knowledge , most human perception re ⁃
search carried out for 360 -degree videos only focused on the 
perceptual video quality instead of the spatial presence . Re⁃
cently , we conducted a subjective evaluation experiment on 
the spatial presence of end users when watching 360 -degree 
videos displayed on VR devices[18]. We aimed to quantitatively 
investigate the relationship between various impact factors 
and the spatial presence .
In this paper , based on the research outcomes of Ref . [18], 
the characteristics of the display device of 360 -degree videos 
are considered . We propose a framework in hierarchical struc ⁃
ture to clarify the influencing factors of the spatial presence , 
where both the features of 360 -degree video and HMD are con ⁃
sidered . A series of rigorous subjective experiments are de ⁃
signed to reveal the relationship between various influencing 
factors and the spatial presence . Furthermore , a quantitative 
evaluation model of spatial presence is built in this work . Con⁃
tributions of this paper can be concluded as follows :
1) We propose the first framework to identify the compo ⁃
nents of spatial presence . This framework provides valuable 
input for establishing models of assessing the spatial presence 
of VR services .
2) We reveal the relationship between spatial presence and 
various related impact factors based on subjective ratings , 
which can be used as recommendations for further improving 
the quality of 360 -degree video services .
3) We propose the first quantitative model to measure the 
spatial presence when watching 360 -degree videos on the 
HMD . The parameters employed in the proposed model can be 
easily extracted , hence the model would be conveniently de ⁃
ployed on the network or client to assess the user ’s presence .
The rest of this paper is organized as follows . Section 2 in⁃
troduces the related work . Section 3 illustrates the assessment 
framework and the subjective experiments . Section 4 intro ⁃
duces the proposed model in detail . In Section 5, the perfor ⁃
mance of the proposed model is evaluated . Conclusions are 
drawn in Section 6.
2 Related Work
Over the last thirty years , researchers have explained and 
defined the concept of presence in several different ways . For 
instance , LOMBARD et . al.[8] defined it as the experience of 
being engaged by the representations of a virtual world in 
2002 . Very recently , presence was defined as the feeling of be ⁃
ing in a perceptible external world around the self[4–7]. The 
evolution of understanding and definition of the presence was 
summarized in Refs . [7] and [9]. As the above research is more 
related to psychoanalysis , straightforward solutions to the mea ⁃surement of presence were outside the scope of these studies . 
How to measure the presence in practice is still unknown .
To acquire the subjective sense of presence , some research ⁃
ers resorted to the design of subjective response question ⁃
naires[19–24]. More specifically , authors in Ref . [19] designed a 
questionnaire , called the immersive tendencies questionnaire 
(ITQ), to investigate the relationship between users ’ sense of 
presence and some handcrafted influential aspects in virtual en ⁃
vironments . Authors in Ref . [22] designed a spatial presence 
questionnaire , named MEC Spatial Presence Questionnaire 
(MSC -SPQ), to investigate the influence of possible actions , self -
location , and attention allocation on users ’ sense of spatial 
presence . However , these studies only focused on revealing the 
qualitative relationship between specific human perceptual as ⁃
pects and presence in the generalized VR environment . On the 
other hand , some researchers tried to evaluate the presence us ⁃
ing physiological signals[14–17]. This type of measurement re ⁃
quires the deployment of professional equipment which is im ⁃
practical for real -world applications . Therefore , designing accu ⁃
rate and implementation -friendly experimental methods to mea ⁃
sure presence is of fundamental importance .
As for the human perception research specifically carried out 
for 360 -degree videos , to our best knowledge , most studies only 
focused on evaluating the quality of experience aspects[25–33] in⁃
stead of assessing the sense of presence . For instance , authors in 
Ref. [25] investigated how to assess the video quality of 360 -de⁃
gree videos corresponding to different projection approaches . A 
quality metric , called spherical peak signal to noise ratio (S-
PSNR ) was proposed to summarize the average quality over all 
possible viewports as the video quality . In Ref . [26], authors pro ⁃
posed an objective video quality assessment method using a 
weighted PSNR and special zero area distortion projection 
method for 360 -degree videos . In Ref . [30], authors measured 
viewport PSNR values over time to assess the objective video 
quality of 360 -degree video streaming . Recently , authors in Ref . 
[33] introduced visual attention in assessing the objective qual ⁃
ity of 360 -degree videos with the assumption that not all of the 
360 -degree scene is actually watched by users . However , as dis ⁃
cussed above , the spatial presence of end users was not fully 
considered in existing research . Our recent work[18] conducted a 
preliminary experiment for assessing the spatial presence of end 
users when viewing 360 -degree videos displayed on VR devices . 
However , modeling the spatial presence of end users is not cov ⁃
ered. How to quantitatively evaluate users ’ sense of spatial pres ⁃
ence when viewing 360 -degree videos remains an open issue .
3 Subjective Evaluation Framework and 
Subjective Experiments
In this section , a hierarchical framework with five percep ⁃
tion modules is first proposed to assess spatial presence . 
Based on this framework , five subjective experiments were de ⁃
signed and conducted according to each module in the frame ⁃
work . Results of subjective experiments are used to investi ⁃
92