ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4FENG Hailin , HAN Jing , HUANG Leijun , SHENG Ziwei , GONG Zican Incident and Problem Ticket Clustering and Classification Using Deep Learning   Research Papers
Incident and Problem Ticket Incident and Problem Ticket 
Clustering and Classification UsingClustering and Classification Using
Deep LearningDeep Learning
FENG Hailin1, HAN Jing2, HUANG Leijun1, 
SHENG Ziwei3, GONG Zican2
(1. Zhejiang A&F University , Hangzhou 310007 , China ；
 2. ZTE Corporation , Shenzhen 518057 , China ；
 3. Huazhong University of Science and Technology , Wuhan 430074 , 
China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304009
https : //kns .cnki.net/kcms/detail/ 34.1294 .TN.20231115 .1421 .002.html, 
published online November 16, 2023
Manuscript received : 2022 -12-19
Abstract : A holistic analysis of problem and incident tickets in a real production cloud service environment is presented in this paper . By ex ⁃
tracting different bags of words , we use principal component analysis (PCA) to examine the clustering characteristics of these tickets . Then K -
means and latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA ) are applied to show the potential clusters within this Cloud environment . The second part of our 
study uses a pre -trained bidirectional encoder representation from transformers (BERT ) model to classify the tickets , with the goal of predict ⁃
ing the optimal dispatching department for a given ticket . Experimental results show that due to the unique characteristics of ticket descrip ⁃
tion, pre -processing with domain knowledge turns out to be critical in both clustering and classification . Our classification model yields 86% 
accuracy when predicting the target dispatching department .
Keywords : problem ticket ; ticket clustering ; ticket classification
Citation  (Format 1): FENG H L , HANG J , HUANG L J , et al . Incident and problem ticket clustering and classification using deep learning 
[J]. ZTE Communications , 2023 , 21(4): 69–77. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304009
Citation (Format 2): H. L. Feng , J. Han , L. J. Huang , et al ., “Incident and problem ticket clustering and classification using deep learning ,” 
ZTE Communications , vol. 21, no. 4, pp. 69–77, Dec. 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304009 .
1 Introduction
For cloud service providers , maintaining an outstanding 
service level agreement with minimum downtime and 
incident response time is critical to the business . In or ⁃
der to provide such a prominent high -level reliability 
and availability , IT operation plays an important role . How ⁃
ever, the emergence of modern computing architectures , such 
as virtual machines , containers , server -less architecture , and 
micro -services , brings additional challenges to the manage ⁃
ment of such environments[1–2].
Problem and incident tickets have been a long -standing 
mechanism in carrying on any issues reflected by customers , 
or any alerts raised by monitoring systems . According to the 
Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) specifica ⁃
tion, the incident , problem , and change (IPC) systems fulfill 
the tracking , analysis , and mitigation of problems[3]. Change 
requests are nowadays mostly managed differently due to the 
practice of DevOps . Incident and problem tickets often share 
the same system and process . An incident or problem ticket 
usually starts with a short description of the problem that has 
been originally observed . The ticket itself may be augmented by the personnel assigned along the debugging and resolution 
process . There are also multiple software platforms and ser ⁃
vices to help enterprises manage those tickets , including BMC 
Remedy , IBM Smart Cloud Control Desk , SAP Solution Man ⁃
ager, ServiceNow , etc.[4]
However , dispatching an incident or problem ticket is still 
basically a manual process depending on human knowledge . 
Some of the ticket management systems offer insights such as 
agent skill level , capacity , and relevance . There are some early 
works attempting to dispatch tickets based on the agent ’s 
speed from historical data[5]. Our observation reveals that dis ⁃
patching to individual agents might be a secondary issue . In⁃
stead , finding the matching department for a specific issue ap ⁃
pears to be a primary one especially if a prompt resolution pe ⁃
riod is the desired outcome . It is not uncommon for some tickets 
to go through multiple departments before it lands on the right 
one. For example , a service unavailable problem might be 
caused by security settings , networking , hosting services , appli ⁃
cations , or even databases , and the specific problem may be re ⁃
solved by one of the departments or by multiple departments . 
Therefore , it is essential to find the most likely de partment , es⁃
69