ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4ZOU Wenjie , GU Chengming , FAN Jiawei , HUANG Cheng , BAI Yaxian Beyond Video Quality : Evaluation of Spatial Presence in 360 -Degree Videos    Research Papers
gate each type of human perception and facilitate the estab ⁃
lishment of the assessment model .
3.1 Proposed Assessment Framework
As shown in Fig . 1, the proposed framework consists of 
three layers , namely the factor layer , the perception layer , and 
the presence layer from left to right . The factor layer includes 
several sensory cues of relevant parameters such as video , au⁃
dio, VR device , and latency . These parameters can be conve ⁃
niently extracted from the current VR systems . In the percep ⁃
tion layer , users ’ perception is characterized into multiple di ⁃
mensions including visual[34] , auditory[34], and interactive per ⁃
ception[21–22, 35]. Detailed definitions of the components of per ⁃
ception and presence layers are discussed as follows .
1) Perceptual video quality
Perceptual video quality refers to the overall perceived 
quality of videos displayed on the HMD . In our previous work , 
three technological parameters of the video , i.e., video bitrate , 
video resolution and video frame rate , are extracted to assess 
the video quality . Two parameters corresponding to the HMD (screen resolution and refresh rate ) are added in the assess ⁃
ment of perceptual video quality .
2) Perceptual audio quality
Perceptual audio quality refers to the overall perceived 
quality of audios offered by the VR system . The audio bitrate 
and audio sampling rate are extracted to assess the perceptual 
audio quality .
3) Visual realism
Visual realism (VRE ) refers to how close the system ’s visual 
output is to real -world visual stimuli . This perception not only 
depends on the video quality , but also depends on how wide the 
FOV provided by HMD is and whether a stereoscopic vision is 
offered . These two additional factors have been verified to be 
important for the overall capability of an immersive system[36].
4) Acoustic realism
Acoustic realism (ARE ) represents how close the system ’s 
aural output is to real -world aural stimuli . Perceptual audio 
quality is the basic experience of the audio . Moreover , spatial 
audio provides the capability to track sound directions and up ⁃
date the head movement in real time . Hence , the spatial audio 
and perceptual audio quality are combined 
to assess the overall acoustic realism .
5) Proprioceptive matching
Proprioceptive matching refers to the 
matching degree between the head move ⁃
ment and the picture/sound refresh of the 
HMD . As for a VR system , the tracking 
level is much more important in regard to 
the spatial presence formation[36]. Similarly , 
the mismatch can also occur in the spatial 
audio . These two mismatches , called motion -
to-photon (MTP ) latency and audio latency 
(AL)[37], are utilized to assess the capability 
of proprioceptive matching .
6) Spatial presence
Spatial presence refers to a user ’s subjec ⁃
tive psychological response to a VR sys ⁃
tem[35]. It is correlated with VRE , ARE , and 
proprioceptive matching , which represents 
the main aspects of the experience provided 
by 360 -degree video services .
3.2 Subjective Experiments for Obtain ⁃
ing Spatial Presence
To explore the spatial presence , six sub ⁃
jective quality scoring experiments were 
conducted , corresponding to the five percep ⁃
tion modules in the perception layer and 
one towards the spatial presence .
3.2.1 Overview of Experimental Design
A total number of 30 non -expert subjects 
participated in this experiment , including ▲Figure 1. Proposed assessment framework for assessing spatial presenceFactor layer Perception layer Spatial presence layer
Video bitrate
Video frame rate
Video resolution
Screen resolution
Screen refresh rate
Field of view
Stereoscopic vision
Audio bitrate
Audio sampling rate
Spatial audio
Motion -to-photon la ⁃
tency
Motion -to-sound 
latencyPerceptual video 
quality
Visual realism
Perceptual audio 
quality
Acoustic realism
Proprioceptive 
matchingSpatial 
presence
93