ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4ZHANG Huiran , DONG Zhen , WANG Mingsheng Spatio -Temporal Context -Guided Algorithm for Lossless Point Cloud Geometry Compression    Special Topic
Generally speaking , the research on single -frame point 
cloud geometric compression is relatively mature , but there 
are two challenges that remain yet . Spatial correlation has 
not been utilized effectively , and most methods do not code 
the correlation of point cloud data thoroughly and efficiently . 
Besides , the calculation of the probability model for entropy 
coding appears long and arduous due to the massive number 
of contexts .
2.2 Multi -Frame Point Cloud Compression
Multi -frame point clouds are commonly used in scenarios 
such as real -time 3D immersive telepresence , interactive VR , 
3D free viewpoint broadcasting and automatic driving . Unlike 
single -frame point cloud compression , multi -frame point cloud 
compression prioritizes the use of time correlation , as well as 
motion estimation and compensation . The existing methods for 
multi -frame point cloud compression can be divided into two 
categories : 2D projection and 3D decorrelation .
The field of image and video compression is extensive and 
has been well -explored over the past few decades . Various al ⁃
gorithms convert point clouds into images and then compress 
them straightforwardly by FFmpeg and H .265 encoders , etc. 
AINALA et al[24] introduce a planar projection approximate en ⁃
coding mode that encodes both geometry and color attributes 
through raster scanning on the plane . However , this method 
causes changes in the target shape during the mapping pro ⁃
cess, making accurate inter -prediction difficult . Therefore , 
SCHWARZ et al .[25] and SEVOM et al .[26] suggest rotated pla ⁃
nar projection , cube projection , and patch -based projection 
methods to convert point clouds into 2D videos , respectively . 
By placing similar projections in adjacent frames at the same 
location in adjacent images , the video compressor can fully re ⁃
move temporal correlation . In Ref . [27], inter -geometry predic ⁃
tion is conducted via TSP , which computes the one -to-one cor ⁃
respondence of adjacent intra -blocks by searching for the 
block with the closest average value . MPEG released the 
video -based point cloud compression (V-PCC) technology for 
dynamic point clouds in 2019[28]. This framework divides the 
input point cloud into small blocks with similar normal vectors 
and continuous space , then converts them to the planar sur ⁃
face through cubes to record the occupancy image and auxil ⁃
iary information . All resulting images are compressed by ma ⁃
ture video codecs , and all bitstreams are assembled into a 
single output file . Other attempts have been made to improve 
the effectiveness of these methods . COSTA et al .[29] exploit sev ⁃
eral new patch packaging strategies from the perspective of op ⁃
timization for the packaging algorithm , data packaging links , 
related sorting , and positioning indicators . Furthermore , 
PARK et al .[30] design a data -adaptive packing method that 
adaptively groups adjacent frames into the same group accord ⁃
ing to the structural similarity without affecting the perfor ⁃
mance of the V -PCC stream .
Due to the inevitable information loss caused by point cloud projection , scholars have developed effective techniques to 
compress the point cloud sequence of consecutive frames us ⁃
ing motion compensation technology based on 3D space . 
KAMMERL et al .[31] propose an octree -based geometric encod ⁃
ing method , which achieves high compression efficiency by 
performing the exclusive OR (XOR ) differences between adja ⁃
cent frames . This method has been not only adopted in the 
popular Point Cloud Library (PCL)[32] but also widely used for 
further algorithm research . Other interframe approaches con ⁃
vert the 3D motion estimation problem into a feature matching 
problem[33] or use reconstructed geometric information[34] to 
predict motion vectors and identify the corresponding relation ⁃
ship between adjacent frames accurately . Recent explosive 
studies[35–36] have shown that the learned video compression 
offers better rate -distortion performance over traditional ones , 
bringing significant reference significance to point cloud com ⁃
pression . ZHAO et al .[37] introduce a bi -directional inter -frame 
prediction network to perform inter -frame prediction and bring 
effective utilization of relevant information in spatial and tem ⁃
poral dimensions . KAYA et al .[38] design a new paradigm for 
encoding geometric features of dense point cloud sequences , 
optimizing the CNN for estimating the encoding distribution to 
realize lossless compression of dense point clouds .
Despite progress in the compression coding technology of 
multi -frame point cloud models , two problems persist . The 
existing multi -frame point cloud compression approaches 
mainly rely on video coding and motion compensation , which 
inevitably involves information loss or distortion caused by 
mapping and block edge discontinuity . In addition , predic ⁃
tive coding exhibits low applicability due to the inconsis ⁃
tency of inter -frame point cloud geometry . The apparent off ⁃
set of points between frames and the unavoidable noise in ⁃
creases the difficulty of effectively using predictive coding in 
inter -frame compression .
3 Proposed Spatio -Temporal Context -Guided 
Lossless Geometry Point Cloud Compres ⁃
sion Method
3.1 Overview
The overall pipeline of our spatio -temporal context -guided 
algorithm is shown in Fig . 1. First , we preprocess the input 
point cloud by applying voxelization and scale transformation . 
Then , the point cloud is divided into unit thickness sliced lay ⁃
ers along the main axis . Next , we design a prediction mode 
that makes full use of the temporal and spatial correlation in ⁃
formation within both intra -frame and inter -frame . We calcu ⁃
late the shortest path of points of reference layers (R-layers ) 
via travelling salesman algorithms , and the results of the R -
layers are then used to predict spatio -temporally and encode 
the rest of the point clouds , namely predicted layers (P-
layers ). Finally , the improved entropy coding algorithms are 
adopted to obtain the compressed binary file .
19