ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4YIN Qian , ZHANG Xinfeng , HUANG Hongyue , WANG Shanshe , MA Siwei Special Topic   Lossy Point Cloud Attribute Compression with Subnode -Based Prediction
where w1 and w2 represent the number of points in two adja ⁃
cent nodes , which makes the transform more adaptive to the 
sparsity of point clouds .
To further explore the local spatial correlation , the inter -
depth upsampling (IDUS ) method[13] is proposed to predict at ⁃
tributes of nodes in the transform domain . As shown in Fig . 2, 
the upsampling process is realized by means of a weighted av ⁃
erage based on geometric distance in the mean attribute 
space . During the prediction procedure , for each node at 
Level l, there are mainly two types of nodes used for predic ⁃
tion, which are parent -level neighbors at Level l-1 and 
subnode -level neighbors at Level l[14]. However , there are still 
some already -encoded neighbors that are not utilized in the 
current prediction and the prediction reference relationship 
can be further refined to improve the attribute compression ef ⁃
ficiency .
3 Proposed Approach
Based on the framework described in Section 2.2, we pro ⁃
pose a subnode -based transform domain prediction for RAHT 
that considers more accurate spatial correlations among 
nodes . In addition to the parent -level neighbors and subnode -
level neighbors in G -PCC, some other effective neighbors are 
also utilized for upsampled transform domain prediction . As il ⁃
lustrated in Fig . 3, the parent -level neighbors at level l-1 in⁃
clude three types of nodes , which are the parent node (Npm), 
co-plane parent neighbor node (sharing a side with the sub ⁃
node to be predicted , Ncppnn ), and co -line parent neighbor 
node (sharing an edge with the subnode to be predicted , 
Nclpnn ). For the subnode -level neighbors at Level l, there are 
the co -plane subnode in the co -plane parent neighbor node 
(Ncpsn ), co -line subnode in the co -line parent neighbor node 
(Nclsncl ) and proposed co -line subnode in the co -plane parent 
neighbor node (Nclsncp ). With these predictive reference nodes , we design an optimized transform domain prediction 
for RAHT . Compared with the original prediction scheme in 
G-PCC, we first introduce already -encoded neighbor nodes 
Nclsncp  as reference candidates and the neighbor search for 
nodes Nclsncp  is described in Section 3.1. Since a new type of 
predictive reference neighbors is added , we further propose a 
geometric distribution -based prediction to refine the original 
node prediction reference relationship , which is then detailed 
in Section 3.2.
3.1 Neighbor Search for Reference Candidates
Since the proposed co -line subnodes (Nclsncp ) exist in the 
co-plane parent neighbor nodes (Ncppnn ), the neighbor search 
is mainly decomposed into two stages : 1) determining the co -
plane parent neighbor nodes and 2) deciding co -line subnodes 
reference candidates . Specifically , for each subnode to be pre ⁃
dicted , the corresponding parent node has at most six co -
plane parent neighbor nodes . Among them , already -encoded 
subnodes Nclsncp  can only exist in three parent neighbor 
nodes (Fig. 4), which are located on the left , front and bottom 
of Npn respectively .
Further considering 
the position of each sub ⁃
node to be predicted in 
its Npn as well as the 
distribution of corre ⁃
sponding Ncppnn , the 
detailed existence of 
Nclsncp  of each subnode 
to be predicted is shown 
in Fig . 4. Note that the 
position indexes (from 0 
to 8) are organized ac ⁃
cording to the Morton or ⁃
der. Specifically , we de ⁃
note Ntbp i  as the i-th 
subnode to be predicted 
in the same Npn. Then , 
it can be seen that only 
Ntbp 0 contains six 
Parent-level  
nodes in Level 
l-1Parent node
Co-plane parent neigh ⁃
bor node
Co-line parent neighbor 
node
Subnode-level  
nodes in 
Level lCo-plane subnode
Co-line subnode in Nclpnn
Co‐line subnode 
in NcppnnType Description Symbols in Diagram
NcppnnNcpsnNclpnn
NclsnclNpn
Nclsncp
▲Figure 3. Notations of different types of nodes for transform domain 
prediction , which include parent -level neighbor nodes at level l-1 and 
subnode -level neighbor nodes at level l 𝑙
▲Figure 2. Upsampled transform domain prediction for region adaptive hierarchical transform (RAHT ) in 
geometry -based point cloud compression (G-PCC ), where upsampling prediction is performed in the mean attribute 
space and transformation is performed in the sum attribute spaceNeighbors at Level l-1
Neighbors at Level l
Decoded attributes at Level l
at Level lOriginal sum of attributesat Level l-1Decoded sum of attributes
at Level l-1Decoded mean attributes
attributes at Level lPredicted mean
Predicted sum of attributes 
at Level lNormalization Weighted 
average
Transform TransformInverse 
normalization
Transformed residuals-
32