ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4YIN Yujie , CHEN Zhang Perceptual Optimization for Point -Based Point Cloud Rendering    Special Topic
Perceptual Optimization for Perceptual Optimization for 
PointPoint --Based Point Cloud RenderingBased Point Cloud Rendering
YIN Yujie , CHEN Zhang
(School of Electronics and Information , Northwestern Polytechnical Uni ⁃
versity , Xi’an 710129 , China )DOI: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304006
https ://kns .cnki.net/kcms/detail/ 34.1294 .TN.20231109 .1549 .001.html, 
published online November 10, 2023
Manuscript received : 2023 -10-05
Abstract : Point -based rendering is a common method widely used in point cloud rendering . It realizes rendering by turning the points into 
the base geometry . The critical step in point -based rendering is to set an appropriate rendering radius for the base geometry , usually calcu ⁃
lated using the average Euclidean distance of the N nearest neighboring points to the rendered point . This method effectively reduces the 
appearance of empty spaces between points in rendering . However , it also causes the problem that the rendering radius of outlier points far 
away from the central region of the point cloud sequence could be large , which impacts the perceptual quality . To solve the above problem , 
we propose an algorithm for point -based point cloud rendering through outlier detection to optimize the perceptual quality of rendering . 
The algorithm determines whether the detected points are outliers using a combination of local and global geometric features . For the de ⁃
tected outliers , the minimum radius is used for rendering . We examine the performance of the proposed method in terms of both objective 
quality and perceptual quality . The experimental results show that the peak signal -to-noise ratio (PSNR ) of the point cloud sequences is im ⁃
proved under all geometric quantization , and the PSNR improvement ratio is more evident in dense point clouds . Specifically , the PSNR of 
the point cloud sequences is improved by 3.6% on average compared with the original algorithm . The proposed method significantly im ⁃
proves the perceptual quality of the rendered point clouds and the results of ablation studies prove the feasibility and effectiveness of the 
proposed method .
Keywords : point cloud rendering ; outlier detection ; perceptual optimization ; point -based rendering ; perceptual quality
Citation  (Format 1): YIN Y J , CHEN Z . Perceptual optimization for point -based point cloud rendering [J]. ZTE Communications , 2023 , 21(4): 
47–53. DOI : 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304006
Citation  (Format 2): Y. J. Yin, Z. Chen , “Perceptual optimization for point -based point cloud rendering ,” ZTE Communications , vol. 21, no. 4, 
pp. 47–53, Dec. 2023 . doi: 10.12142 /ZTECOM .202304006 .
1 Introduction
With the increasing demand for stereoscopic visual 
effects and immersive experiences , 3D point 
clouds are emerging as one of the primary three -
dimensional data in various areas . Point clouds 
are usually generated from sensor data , e.g., triangulation 
and Time -of-Flight (ToF)[1]. A point cloud is a set of points in 
a given coordinate system representing information about a 
scene or an object , often complemented with per -point attri ⁃
butes . This set of points may define the shape of real or 
computer -generated objects or even complex scenes[2]. A 
point cloud has both geometric and attribute features , where 
the geometric features reflect the number of points in the 
point cloud in relation to their position , while the attribute 
features can contain additional information such as the color , 
grey value , average vector and reflectivity of the points . 3D 
point clouds[3−5] have found broad applications in manufactur ⁃
ing, construction , environmental monitoring , navigation , ani⁃
mation , rendering , etc.[6] However , various distortions may be introduced during the acquisition , compression[7], transmis ⁃
sion, storage , and rendering processes of point clouds , lead ⁃
ing to degraded perceptual quality[6]. Improving the Quality 
of Experience (QoE)[8] of point clouds is very important for re ⁃
lated applications .
Point cloud rendering is the process of producing a visual 
representation that can be consumed by users using an avail ⁃
able display , e.g., conventional 2D, stereo , auto -stereoscopic , 
head -mounted displays , etc.[9] The rendering process has a sig ⁃
nificant impact on the quality perceived by the user[10]. Point 
clouds have many properties that differ from traditional video 
images . First , a point cloud is an unordered collection . Sec⁃
ond, a point cloud is unstructured , and the relative positions 
between individual neighboring points are not the same , which 
means that even finding neighboring points requires traversing 
all the points in the point cloud . Finally , point clouds are non -
uniform . They are usually obtained by sampling a single ob ⁃
ject, and the densities of points in different regions of the 
same point cloud may vary significantly[11]. These characteris ⁃
47