ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4XIONG Zhiang , ZHAO Ping , FAN Jiyuan , WU Zengqiang , GONG Hongwei Research Papers   Mixed Electric and Magnetic Coupling Design Based on Coupling Matrix Extraction
model . The theory proposed in Section 2 is applied to design 
the mixed coupling structure . We then demonstrate a 7th-
order in -line mixed coupling filter design with the aid of cou ⁃
pling matrix extraction . Section 4 concludes this paper .
2 Relationship Between FDC and Mixed 
Electric and Magnetic Coupling
A constant coupling in the coupling matrix is modeled by 
an ideal J -inverter , the π-equivalent circuit of which consists 
of three frequency -invariant susceptances (FISs). The charac ⁃
teristic admittance of a frequency -dependent inverter varies 
with frequency . Fig. 1 shows the π-equivalent circuit model of 
the frequency -dependent inverter . The circuit model includes 
three capacitors parallel -connected with FISs .
Note that the FDC is an element in lowpass circuit models . 
The bandpass frequency is mapped to the lowpass frequency 
domain by :Ω=ω0
ω2-ω1(ω
ω0-ω0
ω), (1)
where Ω is the normalized lowpass frequency , ω0 is the cen ⁃
ter frequency of the bandpass filter , ω2 is the upper band 
edge frequency , ω1 is the lower band edge , and ω is the band ⁃
pass frequency .
Substituting Eq . (1) into the admittance formula of FIS and 
capacitor connected in parallel yields
Y=jB+jω0
ω2-ω1(ω
ω0-ω0
ω)CLP=
jB+jωCBP+1
jωLBP  ,(2)
where CLP  is the capacitance in the lowpass circuit model , CBP  
is the capacitance , and LBP  is the inductance in the bandpass 
circuit model . According to Eq . (2), the parameters in the low ⁃
pass and bandpass circuits are related by :
CBP=CLP
2πBW, LBP=2πBW
ω2
0CLP ,
(3)
where BW is the bandwidth and 2πBW= ω2- ω1. After trans ⁃
formation , the coupling between two resonators is not a pure 
electric or magnetic coupling form but mixed coupling . 
Therefore , an FDC should be realized as a mixed electric and 
magnetic coupling . However , Eq. (3) cannot reveal the quali ⁃
tative relationship between FDC and mixed electric and mag ⁃
netic coupling .
As shown in Fig . 1(b), there are unity capacitors on both 
sides of the frequency -dependent inverter . The capacitors 
model parallel resonant circuits with a resonant frequency of 
zero rad/s . The value of the frequency -dependent inverter is 
sCm + jbm. If the left node index is i and the right node index is 
j, the coupling matrix element Mij is bm, and the capacitance 
matrix element Cij is Cm. After lowpass -to-bandpass circuit 
transformation in Eq . (3), the resultant bandpass circuit model 
is shown in Fig . 1(c), where
C1'=1+Cm
2πBW,      Cm'=-Cm
2πBW, (4a)
L1'=2πBW
ω2
0() 1+Cm,       Lm'=-2πBW
ω2
0Cm, (4b)
bm'=-bm , (4c)
ωm≈ω0-bmπBW
Cm.(4d)
▲Figure 1. π⁃equivalent circuit model : (a) frequency -dependent in ⁃
verter , where the admittances of capacitance and frequency -invariant 
susceptances are sC(−sC) and jJ(−jJ) respectively ; (b) frequency -
dependent inverter coupled lowpass network consisting of two resona ⁃
tors, where the two resonators are unit capacitors and resonant fre ⁃
quency is zero rad/s ; (c) bandpass circuit model of mixed electric and 
magnetic coupling(a)−sC−jJ
sC+jJ sC+jJ
−bm
−Cm
Cm
Cmbm1F 1F
Cm'(b)
(c)bm'
Lm'
L1'bmC1'bm
86