ZTE COMMUNICATIONS
December  2023  Vol.21 No.4WANG Chongchong , LI Yao , WANG Beibei , CAO Hong , ZHANG Yanyong Point Cloud Processing Methods for 3D Point Cloud Detection Tasks    Special Topic
3D point cloud object detection algorithm . It can be roughly 
divided into the following two categories : the voxel -based 
point cloud processing method and point -based point cloud 
processing method .
The voxel processing method converts point cloud data into 
voxel representations , which are then processed using 3D con ⁃
volutional neural networks (CNN ). The point -based method is 
directly applied to the raw point cloud data , without convert ⁃
ing it into grids . The point -based method can preserve the 
original characteristics and information of the point cloud and 
have lower computational cost and memory consumption .
However , the point -based method also faces some difficul ⁃
ties, such as dealing with the irregular structure and varying 
density of the point cloud and designing suitable algorithms or 
models for the points . Two major types of methods exist for 
processing the points : clustering -based methods[9–10] and deep 
learning -based methods[11–12]. Based on the clustering 
method , the appropriate clustering algorithm is selected and 
the clustering parameters are determined by the characteris ⁃
tics of the data . After denoising and merging adjacent cluster ⁃
ing operations , the processing results are obtained . The 
method based on deep learning needs to prepare labeled data , 
select and train an appropriate deep learning model , and use 
the trained model to process the point cloud .
Our contribution can be summarized as follows :
1) We summarize voxel -based point cloud processing meth ⁃
ods and find that the voxel -based methods can improve the 
processing performance of point clouds by optimizing the 
voxel partitioning scheme , improving the network structure 
for voxelized point clouds and the data structure for point 
clouds .
2) We summarize point -based point cloud processing meth ⁃
ods and find that the point -based methods can improve the 
processing performance of point clouds by improving the sam ⁃
pling strategy of point clouds , combining the advantages of 
voxel -based methods , and optimizing the representation of 
points .
2 Basic Concepts and Metrics
1) Voxelization
Point cloud voxelization in Fig . 1 refers to the process of 
converting point cloud data into a voxel representation . Voxel ⁃
ization is to divide the point cloud into a spatially uniform 
voxel grid and generate many -to-one mapping between 3D 
points and their corresponding voxels .
The voxelized point cloud data will be stored in memory in 
an orderly manner , which is beneficial to reduce random 
memory access and increase the efficiency of data calculation . 
Moreover , voxelization enables the ordered storage and down -
sampling of data , which allows such methods to handle much 
larger point cloud data . The voxelized data can also leverage 
spatial convolution effectively , which facilitates the extraction 
of local features at multiple scales and levels .2) BEV
The bird ’s eye view (BEV ) based algorithm is an advanced 
computer vision technique used in the field of autonomous 
driving . Using a combination of sensors and cameras , the algo ⁃
rithm creates a high -resolution overhead view of the vehicle ’s 
surroundings . The BEV perspective is shown in Fig . 2.
One of the advantages of BEV is that it provides a compre ⁃
hensive view of the environment , providing a complete picture 
of the environment , unlike other computer vision techniques 
that only focus on specific objects in the environment . The per ⁃
spective can provide more information for subsequent plan ⁃
ning decisions . Another advantage is accuracy . A high -
resolution top view can provide more accurate information . 
One disadvantage of the BEV -based algorithm is that BEV re ⁃
quires high computing power , which is challenging in real -
time systems .
BEV is currently a very popular point cloud processing per ⁃
spective . The methods related to BEV are proposed in Refs . 
[13–17]. Ref. [18] demonstrates the robustness capability of 
▲Figure 1. Schematic representation of point cloud voxelization . Due 
to the sparsity and uneven distribution of point clouds , the number of 
point clouds in each voxel is unevenly distributed . There are even many 
voxels without point clouds . The voxel feature encoding (VFE ) layer bal ⁃
ances this through sampling
▲Figure 2. Bird ’s eye view  based representation
39