network functions, network communication 
and resource occupation are optimized, so 
that a lightweight 5G core network can be 
deployed on one 1U server. The size of the 
server is reduced to that of A3 paper, the 
weight is reduced to 5 KG, and the power 
consumption is 100 W. There is no special 
requirement for power supply of the 
equipment room, so the server can adapt to 
any rack in the equipment room. Mini5GC is 
highly integrated and has the highest 
performance of the same size in the industry. 
It supports 2000 users and has a forwarding 
capability of 5 Gbps, which can be regarded 
as small in size but high in performance. 
Therefore, Mini5GC can be /f_lexibly adapted to 
the needs of explosion-proof mining, /f_lexible 
workstations and on-board deployment.
Second, Mini5GC can achieve integrated 
delivery of software and hardware, and rapid 
service provisioning within hours. It allows 
enterprises to customize functions on demand 
and enhance their determinism. The 5G LAN 
can be deployed on demand to support L2 
Ethernet communication between industrial 
terminals. Mini5GC implements deterministic 
network forwarding and high-precision clock 
synchronization based on TSN, and achieves 
ultra-low-latency communication and 
ultra-high-reliability network transmission 
through URLLC and FRER. In addition, Mini5GC 
also provides more than 100 business 
templates for enterprises to choose and 
con/f_igure on demand. Through solidi/f_ied 
con/f_iguration, the software and hardware are 
pre-integrated and installed before delivery. ith the large-scale deployment 
of 5G networks and the 
commercial use of new 5G 
technologies, 5G plays an 
increasingly important role in enabling digital 
transformation of industries, and the 
development trend of private 5G networks is 
becoming clear. 5G has become a core driving 
force for industrial digital transformation and 
“digital and intelligent” social transformation in 
the industrial, government and enterprise, and 
intelligent production /f_ields. The implementation 
of private network products has cleared the 
barriers for digital transformation of operators 
and enterprise customers, and has become the 
core means of empowering the production /f_ield 
with 5G. 
ZTE’s private network and core network 
continue to evolve. With the combination of 
technological innovation and commercial 
implementation, ZTE has launched a series of 
private network and core network products. It 
has rolled out general iCube to meet the needs 
of integrated cloud, network, and service and 
maintenance, and has developed standard i5GC 
for private 5GC networks. The entire 5GC 
network can be deployed on a single 2U server. 
In October 2022, ZTE launched Mini5GC—
an ultra-light CN product for extreme scenarios 
such as oil and gas exploration, emergency rescue, 
and explosion isolation in mines. Mini5GC features 
ultra-small and ultra-light design, ultra-simple 
networking, and ultra-high integration. 
Mini5GC has two attractions. First, it has a 
highly streamlined architecture and is easy to 
build. Through the integration of general Mini5GC Helps Core Production in OT 
Domain Through Scenario-Based 
Application of 5G Private Networks
Private Network Product 
Planning Manager, ZTELi ChunfengW
205G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic