pen-pit mines include 
open-pit coal mines and 
hillside stone mines. In 
an open-pit coal mine, 
the surface soil is stripped oﬀ to form 
a huge mine with a depth of ten to 
hundreds of meters. The coal seams 
buried at the bottom of the pit are 
dug up and transported to the coal 
storage area. In a hillside stone mine, 
stone materials are excavated from 
top to bottom and transported to the 
unloading area at the foot of the hill. 
In recent years, the open-pit mining 
industry has proposed an intelligent 
development goal of “safety, fewer 
people and unmanned coal mining”, 
and there is an urgent need to reduce 
costs and increase eﬃciency. With 
mature applications of new 
technologies such as machine vision, 
self-driving, remote control and 5G 
wireless communication, open-pit 
mining is rapidly evolving to 
intelligence. As the connection 
infrastructure of intelligent mobile 
equipment, the 5G private network 
has been widely used in the core 
production domain of mines. 
Intelligent Open-pit Mining 
Creates Need for Wireless 
Communications 
Open-pit coal mining involves explosion, loading, and transportation. 
In the process of intelligent 
transformation, new services are 
introduced such as unmanned mining 
truck transportation, remote control of 
electric shovel, auxiliary equipment 
monitoring, and intelligent vehicle 
management and control. Wired 
optical cables cannot meet the 
mobility requirements of mining 
trucks, which has created the need 
for 5G wireless networks. 
An open-pit mine covers a wide 
area, ranging from two square 
kilometers to dozens of square 
kilometers. The core working surface is 
slowly advanced, gradually getting 
away from the coverage area of base 
stations. Therefore, it is necessary to 
swap and redeploy some base stations. 
There are dozens to hundreds of 
unmanned mining trucks, electric 
shovels, excavators, earth-moving 
trucks, and other heavy equipment in 
the open-pit mine, which imposes high 
requirements on the uplink capacity of 
the network and the low latency and 
high reliability of remote control 
instruction transmission. 
Open-pit mines have high 
requirements for production safety 
and reliability. When there are tasks 
for high productivity, 24-hour 
production is required and network 
failures will greatly aﬀect mining 
ToB Architect of ZTE RAN 
Product PlanningZhou Jianhua5G Private Network Solution for 
Open-Pit Mines: Promoting Large-Scale 
Application of Unmanned Mining Truck s
O
365G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic