5G Dual-Domain Private Network 
Solutions Facilitate Personalized 
User Access
ToB Architect of ZTE RAN 
Product PlanningZhao Qiongying
ZTE CCN Product 
Planning ManagerLu Qiangith the expansion of 5G 
private network services, 
various industry customers 
such as schools, governments, 
medical centers, tourist resorts and industrial 
parks hope to replace their existing Wi-Fi 
networks or deploy hybrid private networks 
using 5G. For con/f_identiality requirements 
of business data, these enterprises usually 
have their own intranet. When employees 
use personal mobile phones to access the 
enterprise’s intranet through 5G network, 
they need to log in through a VPN or by 
other means, which can be quite complex 
and poses potential security risks. Therefore, 
it would be a great convenience for 
enterprise or campus users to use their 
personal phones with B2C SIM cards 
(personal phone cards) to access both 
the Internet normally and enterprise 
intranet in the campus without changing 
the SIM cards or phone numbers, while 
preventing data out/f_low.
For seamless access, a dual-domain 
private network is essential to provide 
enterprise private network access services 
for both B2B and B2C. This network 
enables seamless interconnection between 
the Internet and enterprise services for 
industry customers, facilitating the 
integration of B2C and B2B services.
Combining the Internet and enterprise 
service access requirements of industry 
customers, ZTE provides /f_lexible 5G 
dual-domain private network solutions to meet the deployment needs of diﬀerent 
application scenarios. 
5G Dual-Domain Private Network 
Solution Based on ULCL
The ULCL-based 5G dual-domain private 
network adopts the uplink classi/f_ier (ULCL) 
oﬄoading solution. It forwards uplink data 
traﬃc to diﬀerent UEs as required by the 
/f_ilter, and combines downlink data traﬃc 
from multiple anchors of the UEs. The traﬃc 
is oﬄoaded through ULCL. In this case, the 
primary anchor is located on the user plane 
function (UPF) of the public network, while 
the secondary anchor is located on the edge 
UPF of the campus. Local traﬃc within the 
campus is oﬄoaded to the campus’s 
intranet through the edge UPF.
An enterprise user /f_irst forwards data 
traﬃc through the public network’s UPF. 
When the user moves to the campus, a TA 
update message is triggered and SMF 
sends a policy update request to PCF for 
event update. After delivering the policy 
update, PCF triggers a UL-CL procedure and 
an edge UPF is inserted into the original 
user session. In this way, the user session is 
distributed locally by the edge UPF, while 
any missed data is still sent back to the 
public network’s UPF for processing, as 
illustrated in Fig. 1.
The ULCL oﬄoading solution has the 
following bene/f_its:
Users in the campus can still use the W
245G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic