governance. As shown in Fig. 1, the solution is 
based on the cloud network technology and 
provides a complete set of tools and 
speci/f_ications that facilitate the digital 
transformation of enterprises. It also provides 
a systematic approach to the system 
architecture and evolution direction, serving 
as a reference for enterprises looking to 
embark on this journey. To be speci/f_ic, the 
solution consists of four modules as follows: 
Enabler:  covers full stack technology; 
InOne:  integrates services; 
Studio:  a development platform; 
Market:  supports digital asset operation. 
The Enabler integrates the technical 
capabilities of ZTE and its partners, including 
big data, AI algorithm models, XR engine, 
blockchain, and other industry leading 
technologies. It is designed to be open to 
enterprise application developers through 
standardized and easy-to-use interfaces, 
reducing the technical barriers and R&D costs 
of digital transformation, ultimately helping all 
industries achieve digital transformation.
The InOne is a digital bus that enables the 
convergence and opening of diﬀerent types 
of digital assets such as data, capabilities 
and messages. It helps customers break 
through the information silos within the 
enterprise, realize the intercommunication between IT and OT, and between new and 
old application systems. It also realizes the 
convergence of IoT data and the entry of all 
kinds of application data into the data lake.
The Studio is a tool platform and R&D 
environment that improves development 
eﬃciency. It not only provides professional 
developers with a one-stop DevOps toolchain 
to improve development and O&M eﬃciency 
from the perspective of management, but also 
provides a variety of low-code development 
tools to upgrade ordinary business personnel 
to developers. This allows those who know 
more about requirements to rapidly develop 
enterprise applications by themselves and 
accelerate business innovations.
The Market provides enterprises with a 
uni/f_ied portal for one-stop browsing, 
application, approval and activation of 
digital assets. It can achieve the largest 
range of controlled transactions with 
convenience and digital asset reuse within 
the company and among associated/uni00A0
enterprises, improving the eﬃciency of 
resources utilization for enterprises.
Benefits 
Enterprise digital transformation 
empowered by Digital Nebula can be 
characterized by four aspects: more, faster, 
Fig. 1. ZTE’s Digital 
Nebula solution.
Distributed
precision cloudDeterminstic
precision networkCloud grows on demand
Network follows the cloudCloud-network infrastructureEmp ower the industry
5G chipNode Engine Cloud-ne twork
integrated cabinet5G indus trial
gatewayLow-delay
gatewayAGV 5G indus trial
modul e5G TAUEdge intelligent 
computing
gateway5G outdoor
CPEInOne Market EnablerDigital top -level design consulting
TMNew media Electroni c Che mical Rail transit Mine Port Medical care Education 
CPE Video synthesis
gatewayStudio
31JUN 2023