production safety and aﬀects work eﬃciency 
and transfer eﬃciency. 
Underground terminal devices are complex, 
including cameras, sensors, controllers, robots, 
wearable devices, and mobile phones. Their 
interface protocols are quite diﬀerent, and 
there is no uni/f_ied standard or platform for 
centralized access and monitoring. 
There are high security requirements. The 
production data shall not be out of the 
industrial park, and relevant underground 
devices have explosion-proof requirements.
ZTE uses Mini5GC to meet the special 
underground deployment environments and 
security and explosion-proof requirements. In 
this way, underground production data can be 
unloaded locally, video collection and personnel 
management data can be uploaded to the 
data center of the park, and the data can be 
connected to the underground voice system. 
All the networks in the park are managed in a 
uni/f_ied manner and deliver the same service 
experience. 
5G wireless transmission is an innovation in 
modern coal mining technologies. It helps to 
change workers’ operating habits and improve 
their working environments. It is of great 
signi/f_icance to improve the eﬃciency of 
comprehensive mining, reduce the number of 
workers and their labor intensity, and improve 
the intelligent mining capability.
Coal mine intelligence is the core technical 
support for high-quality development of the 
coal industry. This coal mine is super-large 
state-owned coal mine with a capacity of 
10 million tons, and it is also one of the /f_irst 
batch of 71 smart demonstration mines in 
China. A set of Mini5GC is deployed under the 
mine to achieve full 5G coverage of the mining 
area, setting a benchmark for intelligent 
construction of coal mines and playing an 
demonstration role in the reconstruction coal 
mines across the country. This is a successful 
practice of 5G moving from supporting system 
to core operation, and it is also a solid step 
in the application of 5G private networks in 
industrial scenarios. The /f_irst call is connected, and the whole system 
is delivered from the factory. After arriving at the 
site, Mini5GC provides one-click con/f_iguration 
modi/f_ication and automatic dialing test to realize 
rapid service provisioning within hours. Finally, 
Mini5GC provides local O&M and centralized 
O&M for enterprises to select according to their 
needs, freeing them from service operation and 
maintenance. Remote O&M can also be provided 
to monitor the status of the private network. 
Mini5GC can be deployed on the operator side 
or ZTE OpenLab to facilitate the professional 
O&M of private network and core network. 
In addition to /f_lexible networking of 
production lines in industrial shop/f_loors, ZTE 
Mini5GC can also provide core technologies for 
intelligent development of coal mines. It is 
applicable to the scenarios in mining areas such 
as high-de/f_inition video, unmanned driving, 
intelligent sensors, integrated voice, and 
inspection robots, meeting the requirements of 
network bandwidth, latency and reliability, as 
well as edge computing capabilities. Derived 
from ZTE’s public network and core network 
products, Mini5GC has mature 4G/5G access 
functions and provides operators and industry 
users with deterministic network capabilities 
such as 5G LAN, TSN and URLLC to continuously 
empower the industry. 
A coal mine in Shaanxi takes the lead in its 
intelligent transformation. Adhering to the 
concept of network-cloud synergy with the 
network as the basis and the cloud as the core, 
the coal mine works with ZTE to create an 
innovative intelligent solution for underground 
comprehensive mining work. They explore an 
eﬀective development path for deep integration 
of 5G and smart mines. 
The coal production process includes well 
construction, excavation, comprehensive mining, 
transportation and cleaning, and the working 
environment covers the upper and lower wells. 
The main diﬃculties are:
The working environment is complex, dusty 
and watery. With limited underground space 
and frequent movement of large equipment, 
optical and copper cables are often scratched 
or damaged, which causes hidden dangers in 
21JUN 2023