Fig. 2. 5G dual-
domain private 
network solution 
based on NodeEngine.
NodeEngine
Internet
Local
network
2C default
S-NSSAI
5G device 5G 2B device 4G device2B S-NSSAILocal data center
2C PLMNInternet traﬃc
Local traﬃc 5GC EPC
BBU & NodeEngine
CampusApplications
ZTE’s 5G dual-domain private network 
solutions have been commercialized in 
several campuses and industrial parks. ZTE 
worked with a telecom operator to deploy 
the ULCL-based 5G dual-domain private 
network in a university in Wuhan in 
September 2021. Teachers and students can 
access both the Internet and intranet while 
on campus, and only the Internet when oﬀ 
the campus.
In August 2022, ZTE cooperated with an 
operator to deploy the NodeEngine-based 
5G dual-domain private network in an 
industrial park in Inner Mongolia. A set of 
NodeEngine solution was used to enable 
simultaneous access of the 4G/5G private 
network and enterprise users in the 
industrial park. By signing a speci/f_ic RFSP/
SPID with enterprise users, employees in 
the park can access both the Internet and 
the intranet. When leaving the park, they 
can only access the Internet. 
Summary
With the rapid growth of 5G and 
further improvement of infrastructure, 
the trend of replacing Wi-Fi with 5G in 
campus scenarios has become inevitable. 
Both ULCL-based and the NodeEngine-
based 5G dual-domain private network 
solutions are designed to address the 
limitations of campus networks and 
enable access to 4G/5G-converged 
networks, expanding their application 
scenarios. As a leading global provider 
of integrated communications solutions, 
ZTE has been committed to proactively 
addressing customer needs and working 
with partners to constantly improve 5G 
dual-domain private network solutions. 
This will drive the deep integration of 
5G+ industries, promoting the digital 
and intelligent transformation across 
various sectors. 
4G/5G Multi-Service Integration with Local 
Access
A set of NodeEngine solution can support 
simultaneous 4G/5G network access and 
multi-service access to the enterprise 
intranet, satisfying the requirements of both 
mobile phones and B2B terminals and 
services. As a result, this solution meets the 
local access needs of existing 4G terminal 
users and protects the investment in 4G. 
Seamless Oﬄoading and Secure Control
The solution implements seamless data 
traﬃc divergence through one-phone-
one-card access, allowing enterprise 
employees to simultaneously access the 
Internet and the enterprise intranet. The 
NodeEngine performs local traﬃc oﬄoading 
and allows enterprise users to sign a speci/f_ic 
RAT/frequency selection priority (RFSP). By 
identifying users with RFSP labels, it 
achieves synergetic access and eﬀective 
management control for speci/f_ic enterprise 
users on both public and private networks. 
Only signed enterprise users are allowed to 
access the enterprise’s intranet services. 
265G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic