Fig. 1. SE+NE 
FRER networking 
architecture.
Model1
Model2FRERFRER
NodeEngine
SE9102Frame replication
Control flowFrame deduplication
Local application5G NR
5G NRIP camera
PLC
Instrument54321
543215
5
3
2141
loss
lossFRER Provides High-Reliability 
Service Guarantee for Determinism 
of 5G Field Network
T
ToB Architect of ZTE RAN 
Product PlanningLu Zhien
5G Private Network 
Planning Director of 
ZTE CCN ProductsWang Zhenghe industrial /f_ield scenarios, such as 
metal processing, complex 
equipment assembly, and logistics 
bring a great challenge to timely 
and reliable acquisition of industrial equipment 
data like control and experience. Stable and 
reliable operation of /f_ield networks is very 
important for manufacturing enterprises to 
ensure stable production and improve the 
eﬃciency. Therefore, 5G networks should be 
capable of running continuously with high 
reliability for a long time after entering the OT 
domain of vertical industries. Most intelligent 
manufacturing facilities require the /f_ield network 
to operate steadily 24 hours a day and have a 
certain QoS guarantee, because any interruption 
will seriously aﬀect normal operation of the 
enterprise. 
To ensure end-to-end service determinism of 
5G /f_ield network, a heterogeneous network can 
be deployed with redundant data transmission 
to achieve end-to-end high service reliability. 
Currently, there are two ways to enhance the 
reliability of data transmission: packet data 
convergence protocol (PDCP), and frame 
replication and elimination for reliability (FRER). 
PDCP is used for redundant transmission of 
industrial data on diﬀerent radio carriers. It 
supports carrier aggregation and dual-connection mode to reduce packet loss 
on the air interface caused by radio 
interference and ensure data integrity and 
timeliness.
FRER supports two modes: single-terminal 
dual-PDU sessions and dual-terminal FRER. 
Data is sent in redundancy mode through two 
independent user-plane bearer channels. The 
sender replicates data, and the receiver 
de-duplicates and reassembles data. This 
reduces service damage caused by packet loss 
in the transmission and core network and 
improves the reliability of end-to-end data 
transmission. Based on the reliability of 
existing terminals, ZTE uses its self-developed 
SmartEdge (SE) and NodeEngine (NE) to 
propose the SE+NE FRER solution. Through 
two independent radio links, FRER achieves 
optimal data receiving and forwarding at the 
convergence side. This not only avoids 
retransmission and even packet loss caused by 
occasional interference from the radio link on 
the air interface, but also avoids service 
interruption caused by sudden abnormality of 
a single UE. This solution can improve 
end-to-end service reliability. 
FRER is applicable to control business in 
steel, port and mine with complex radio 
environments and high network reliability 
225G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic