ince 2020, the global deployment 
of 5G networks has been initiated. 
At present, there are more than 
three million 5G base stations 
built worldwide. Moreover, 5G networks 
have been widely adopted and implemented 
in important industries. 
The industrial Internet is the central 
component among various elements in 
the application of 5G in factories. It 
directly serves the IT and OT business 
systems of enterprises, while the 5G 
network plays a crucial role in ensuring 
its smooth operation. 
Great Challenges Faced by Industrial 
Internet in Rapid Deployment
Fueled by the surge of digital economy 
in recent years, the industrial Internet has 
experienced rapid development. However, 
as the industrial Internet expands on a 
large scale, certain challenges have 
emerged in its platform construction.
Currently, the typical application of the 
industrial Internet primarily revolves 
around simple digital transformation, 
lacking a uni/f_ied construction solution. 
This “single-point” service approach may exacerbate the creation of 
information silos within enterprise 
digital transformation. Moreover, 
traditional enterprises’ IT and OT 
networks are constructed by diﬀerent 
manufacturers and managed by 
independent departments, resulting 
in internal “walls”. Consequently, the 
digital transformation of enterprises 
is still in its preliminary stage. 
At present, the industrial Ethernet 
continues to dominate the network 
infrastructure in the production domain 
of enterprises. However, the complex 
wired connections pose great pressures 
on network deployment and /f_lexible 
transformation within these enterprises. 
Most enterprises are incapable of moving 
to cloud at the production edge. The 
more complex the process and scale of 
intelligent manufacturing, the greater 
the need for data integration and 
exposure among various systems. 
However, in the core OT domain of 
industry, the mainstream industrial 
control systems are currently 
incompatible and lack interoperability. 
For enterprises, the most valuable 
asset is data. The current state of 5G+ Industrial Internet: 
Creating a New Era of 
Fully-Connected Factories
SWang Jingfei, Director of ZTE Wireless ToB Planning
06Expert Views