he wave of digital economy in 
China has led to an increase in 
the proportion of domestic 
industrial digitalization from 
77% in 2016 to 81.5% in 2021. This highlights 
the growing consensus that digital 
transformation is indispensable for high-
quality development of enterprises. However, 
compared with developed countries such as 
Germany where the proportion of industrial 
digitalization is as high as 91.3%, China has 
signi/f_icant room for growth and presents great 
market prospects.
Challenges
In addition to the great development 
opportunities, China’s industrial digitalization 
also faces huge challenges. 
The /f_irst challenge is related to the 
understanding of digitalization and systematic 
top-level design. When enterprises are 
confronted with a large number of emerging 
technologies and production system 
innovations that diﬀer from the legacy 
production processes, they have diﬀerent 
perceptions of how to build digitalization and 
form a digital economy. This makes it diﬃcult 
to form a systematic construction idea and 
top-level design.
The second challenge is to connect 
data silos. Enterprise digitalization requires 
solving the problem of data and capacity 
interoperability among multiple traditional 
isolated systems, and ensuring the long-term 
coexistence of the old information system with the new system during the transformation 
process. This makes it more diﬃcult to 
support the inherently complicated 
reconstruction of enterprise information 
systems. 
The third challenge comes from the 
ever-changing application requirements and 
ineﬃcient development process. As we 
know, enterprise digitalization requires the 
development of a large number of new 
applications. The traditional development 
mode relies on professional software 
engineers, which are costly and time-
consuming. It is hard to adapt to the 
changing business needs.
The fourth challenge is using new 
technologies and insuﬃcient personnel 
capabilities. The rapidly evolving 
technologies have brought technical barriers 
to the digital transformation of enterprises. 
Cloud, big data, AI, blockchain, and other 
digital technologies are becoming more and 
more complex, which require a large 
amount of manpower and resources to 
master them. This further increases the 
diﬃculty of enterprise application 
development and the potential cost of 
exploring these technologies.
Digital Nebula Solution
ZTE has developed the Digital Nebula 
solution which is based on its accumulated 
experience in digital transformation and 
exploration in large enterprises, typical 
vertical industries, and complex urban “Digital Nebula” Boosts Digital 
Transformation of Industries
Vice General Manager of 
ZTE Industry Digital 
Solution Dept.Cui Zhuo
Architect of ZTE Industry 
Digital Solution Dept.Ren JunT
305G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic