protocols: /f_ieldbus technology, industrial 
Ethernet technology, and wireless 
technology. Comparing the three 
technologies, the /f_ieldbus technology 
oﬀers higher reliability, the industrial 
Ethernet technology has greater 
transmission rates, and the wireless 
technology provides a more portable and 
/f_lexible deployment method. 
The /f_ieldbus technology is primarily 
used to support data communication 
between /f_ield sensors and controllers, 
between controllers and actuators, or 
between controllers and various 
input/output control stations. 
The industrial Ethernet technology 
complies with the TCP/IP framework 
and oﬀers advantages such as simple 
interfaces, open protocols, high 
reliability, fast transmission rate and 
convenient interoperability. 
The wireless technology, represented by 
5G, oﬀers signi/f_icant advantages, including 
the elimination of the need for power line 
deployment and the ability to connect to a 
greater number of monitoring and control 
points. 5G can be combined with time 
sensitive networking (TSN). When TSN is 
deployed between controllers and /f_ield 
devices, 5G enables high-quality deterministic 
delay transmission of control signals. When 
TSN is deployed between controllers, 5G 
achieves high-precision synchronous 
transmission of collaborative signals. When 
TSN is deployed between IT networks and 
OT network, 5G enables the uploading of 
production data to information systems and 
the distribution of control and management 
information to production equipment. 
5G Computing Network Collaboration 
Provides Flexible Customization of 
Computing Power for Fully-Connected 
Factories
Thanks to network exposure, 5G 
networks inherently have collaborative computing capabilities across cloud, edge, 
and terminals. While investing in the 
construction of a 5G network, industrial 
enterprises can also deploy computing 
power close to their production sites. The 
enterprises can /f_lexibly con/f_igure the 
computing resources of 5G networks 
according to the speci/f_ic needs of diﬀerent 
scenarios such as “factory-level” and 
“shop-/f_loor + production-line-level”. By 
deploying the most suitable service 
systems nearby, they can minimize the 
delay loss caused by network detour. At 
the same time, the edge computing power 
is deployed within the enterprise campus, 
which falls within the domain of enterprise 
management. This enables uni/f_ied 
management of computing resources and 
upper-layer applications in accordance with 
the enterprise’s security policies, eﬀectively 
reducing data security risks. 
With the /f_lexible computing 
capabilities in the industrial Internet, 
enterprises will have more choices for 
their core business in the OT domain. 
They are no longer limited to traditional 
closed system solutions oﬀered by 
industrial control enterprises. Instead, 
they have the opportunity to embrace 
emerging open system solutions, 
continuously accumulating production 
data and driving ongoing optimization 
and eﬃciency improvements. 
Conclusion
As one of the global leaders in 5G 
networks, ZTE has worked with more than 
90 operators and 500 partners worldwide 
to drive innovation and explore a wide 
range of 5G applications. It has accumulated 
numerous successful use cases in various 
industries. In the era of digital transformation 
and the construction of 5G fully-connected 
factories, ZTE has always been a powerful 
partner for operators and industry 
enterprises. 
09JUN 2023