unmanned overhead travelling crane 
in hot-rolling, cold-rolling, and silicon 
steel production shopfloors. The 
on-board PLC is connected to 
the warehouse management system 
through 5G, and the HD videos 
from inside the factory are transmitted 
back to the centralized control room in 
real time, enabling unmanned and 
automatic control of the overhead 
travelling crane. This has greatly 
improved the safety and overall 
eﬃciency of production. In the future, 
ZTE’s 5G computing power base for 
industrial control will also be applied 
in more core production fields such as 
smart molten steel transport and 
unmanned stacker-reclaimers.
WISCO Model Leads Intelligent 
Digital Transformation of Steel 
Industry
Under the guidance of 5G full-
connected factory construction, WISCO, 
a leading enterprise in the steel industry 
in China,  is continuously strengthening 
the penetration of 5G technologies in 
the core production field. They are 
moving from single-point scenarios 
to systematic and comprehensive 
applications in production lines, 
shopfloors, campuses, and enterprises.  
ZTE will collaborate with Wuhan 
Unicom to further improve the 
end-edge-cloud-network integration 
capability of the 5G computing power 
base for industrial control. They will explore 
more core production scenarios of WISCO 
and build an industry benchmark for 5G 
fully-connected factory. The model of 
WISCO will also be applied to more steel 
companies, facilitating the intelligent 
digital transformation of the steel 
metallurgy industry and promoting the 
industry’s long-term high-quality 
development.data can be oﬄoaded and processed 
locally in the shopfloor through the 
NodeEngine base station with a built-
in computing engine, achieving the 
integration of "network" and “service”.
The IDOS R88 is an intelligent digital 
O&M portal for enterprise users. It is a 
lightweight, plug-and-play, end-to-
end, intelligent, and minimalistic O&M 
system that provides end-to-end 
visual monitoring of service scenarios, 
including the performance data of the 
entire network, system fault alarms 
and SLA assurance. The IDOS R88 
works with the NodeEngine base 
station with a built-in computing 
engine to realize the integration of 
cloud and network within the private 
network of WISCO. This enables fast 
deployment without the need for 
additional hardware.
5G Brings Infinite Possibilities 
In November 2022, China's 5G+ 
Industrial Internet Conference was 
held in Wuhan, Hubei Province. The 
conference was jointly hosted by the 
Ministry of Industry and Information 
Technology and the Hubei Provincial 
Government with the theme of 
"Integrating Everything with Digital 
Intelligence to Create the Future". It 
showcased the latest achievements of 
China's integrated development of the 
5G+ industrial Internet. The "unmanned 
application of WISCO based on 5G 
industrial control private network" jointly 
built by ZTE and Wuhan Unicom with 
WISCO was selected as a typical 
application example at the conference. 
ZTE’s 5G computing power base 
for industrial control promotes the 
integration of IT, CT and OT while 
meeting the high reliability requirements 
of industrial control. It has achieved the 
large-scale implementation of the 
41JUN 2023