better and more economical.
“More” refers to the extensive capabilities 
and partnerships of Digital Nebula. The Digital 
Nebula Enabler provides comprehensive ICT 
technology, and InOne supports the access of 
thousands of industrial terminals. With an 
ecosystem of more than 500 partners, the 
Digital Nebula can integrate the technical 
capabilities of all its partners to fully assist 
customers in their digital transformation.
“Faster” refers to the ability of Digital 
Nebula Studio to help customers and partners 
develop applications and realize agile business 
innovations in a prompt way. Enablers provides 
out-of-the-box technical components to help 
developers solve technical problems and shorten 
the time for launching new technologies.
“Better” refers to Digital Nebula’s 
excellent performance, intelligence and 
security. In 2021, ZTE was the /f_irst to be 
certi/f_ied as the “trusted digital service 
provider” by the Ministry of Industry and 
Information Technology (MIIT), and in May 
2022, it was the /f_irst to pass the “assessment 
of the enterprise intelligent operation 
service capability” by MIIT. Digital Nebula 
has also obtained a number of authoritative 
certi/f_ications, and achieved global 
capabilities that are intelligent, predictable, 
safe, autonomous and controllable.
“More economic” refers to the ability of 
Digital Nebula to help enterprises reuse assets 
and save costs. The Digital Nebula Enabler 
realizes the sharing of basic capabilities, saving 
investment in technical development. InOne 
eﬀectively supports the use of existing and 
new systems within the enterprise, saving the 
reconstruction costs. Market enables the 
sharing of various digital assets such as data 
and capability components both within and 
outside the enterprise, leading to cost savings 
in many aspects.
ZTE’s Practices
ZTE has leveraged Digital Nebula 
to explore hundreds of innovative applications in various industries, such as 
steel metallurgy, transportation, mining, 
and digital cities. One of its remarkable 
achievements is at the Nanjing Binjiang 
Factory where ZTE has implemented 
data collection and control of the 
production line, AI quality detection, 
intelligent warehousing, and AGV 
transfer using the 5G network and 
Digital Nebula. The factory has also 
achieved intelligent security, energy 
consumption optimization, convenient 
passage, safe production in the park, 
and the digital twin of the whole park, 
which sets an industry benchmark.
Furthermore, in the industrial sector, ZTE 
has worked with Gree Electric (Zhengzhou) to 
build a 5G+MEC smart factory, and supported 
JA Solar in their photovoltaic manufacturing 
upgrade. These projects have won many 
honors such as the WSIS Champion Award, 
the /f_irst prize of the “Bloom Cup” 5G 
Application Competition hosted by the MIIT, 
and the Top 10 5G Application Cases of the 
World 5G Convention.
In the mining industry, ZTE provides an 
integrated smart mine solution based on 
Digital Nebula to top mine customers 
including Yankuang Group Co.,Ltd, China 
Pingmei Shenma Holding Group Co., Ltd, and 
Shaanxi Zhongmei New Energy Co., Ltd to 
improve safety and eﬃciency in production.
In the /f_ield of digital government and 
smart city, ZTE has provided government 
customers with safe and eﬃcient digital 
solutions such as urban digital twins, 
community intelligence and uni/f_ied network 
management based on Digital Nebula.
ZTE also provides consulting services for 
large enterprises such as CITIC Haizhi and 
Nanjing Port Group utilizing Digital Nebula 
and its digital transformation methodology.
Moving forward, ZTE will continue to 
collaborate with its partners to drive digital 
transformation and high-quality development 
across various industries based on the Digital 
Nebula platform.
325G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic