Three Core Capabilities for ZTE 5G 
Field Network
After extensive practice, ZTE has proposed 
three key capabilities of 5G /f_ield network: 
deterministic guarantee, one-stop cloud-
network solution, and simpli/f_ied O&M for 
enterprises (Fig. 2). 
Deterministic Guarantee 
For common applications of 5G /f_ield 
network such as data collection, AGVs and 
PLC northbound, deterministic requirements 
of 20 ms @99.99% are typical. To meet these 
requirements, it is recommended to use 
network enhancements such as local traﬃc 
oﬄoading and frame replication and 
elimination for reliability (FRER) to improve 
network capabilities. In addition, features 
such as short SR period, intelligent 
pre-scheduling and low MCSs can be 
introduced to improve the air interface 
capabilities. To accurately guarantee 
diﬀerent applications, precise service 
identi/f_ication, scheduling and KPI 
measurement can be used. 
As 5G cord-cutting continues, latency 
requirements become higher, less than
10 ms @99.999% for applications like 
PLC southbound, along with strict jitter 
requirements. For these services, URLLC 
technology needs to be introduced to 
provide ultra-low latency and ultra-high 
reliability, and TSN technology also needs 
to be introduced to guarantee jitter as 
low as 1 ms. 
One-Stop Cloud-Network Products
Applications play a key role in the digital 
and intelligent transformation of industries. 
To achieve /f_lexible, convenient, and 
low-cost deployment of various industrial 
applications, cloudi/f_ication is currently the 
trend. That means cloud, network, and 
industry applications should be taken into consideration during transformation. For 
this purpose, ZTE provides one-stop 
cloud-network products for 5G /f_ield 
network, so that computing power can be 
extended from the campus network to the 
/f_ield network, enabling on-demand 
deployment of applications. On the edge 
side, ZTE provides the industry-only 
site-level computing engine, NodeEngine. By 
inserting the computing engine board into 
BBU, ZTE can rapidly upgrade the common 
base station to the computing base station 
to implement local traﬃc oﬄoading and 
local application deployment. This helps to 
integrate 5G base stations with industrial 
applications. On the terminal side, ZTE has 
launched a series of 5G edge gateways that 
provide not only abundant interfaces 
for interconnection with various industrial 
devices but also built-in computing 
platforms for applications such as video 
coding and PLC control. 
Simplified O&M for Enterprises
To reduce the barriers of applying 5G to 
vertical sectors, ZTE has developed a series 
of features that greatly simplify O&M for 
enterprises. These features include an 
all-in-one management system that 
provides end-to-end management 
capabilities across wireless network, core 
network, bearer network, /f_ixed network, 
and terminals, and the self-service IDOS 
portal that enables enterprises to monitor 
and manage the applications independently. 
By working with operators and 
industry partners, ZTE has gotten 
rich experience in building 5G fully-
connected factory in industries such as 
manufacturing, logistics, ports and mines. 
Leveraging its innovative 5G industrial 
Internet integration capabilities, ZTE will 
continue to empower the intelligent 
transformation and upgrade of China's 
manufacturing industry. 
13JUN 2023