eﬃciency and operation bene/f_its.
5G Networking and Coverage 
Solution for Open-Pit Mines
Generally, in small-and-medium-sized 
open-pit mines, a hybrid 5G private 
network is used to construct an 
independent UPF resource pool in the 
mining area for disaster recovery and 
ensuring that production data does not 
go out of the mines. The public network 
and private network share 5G new radios 
(NRs), and traﬃc is logically isolated 
through the slicing technology. Physical 
resource blocks (PRBs) are deployed to 
reserve high-priority air interface 
resources for private network services. In 
a large open-pit mine, security 
requirements are extremely high. In 
general, an independent private network 
solution is deployed to provide the 
highest security, in which base stations 
and the core network are exclusively 
used and physically isolated from the 
public network. 
Considering the distinct environments 
and requirements of each functional area, the planning of the open-pit mine 
network needs to be tailored to individual 
areas. In a mine or a large-scale operation 
platform where overlapping coverage 
and co-channel interference are serious, 
SuperCell is needed to avoid frequent 
handover and co-channel interference. 
On the transportation road, line coverage 
is needed to reduce cell handover and 
ensure service experience of continuous 
driving. In living areas and coal washing 
areas, full coverage is needed to make a 
large number of terminals connected. 
For the scenario where the working 
surface of an open-pit mine moves 
slowly, ZTE has developed trailer-type 
movable base stations that integrate 
the antenna, baseband and mast. 
The antenna can move upwards and 
downwards, as high as 18 meters, and 
has strong wind resistance capability. 
The movable base stations are /f_lexible 
and can quickly complete swap and 
network recovery. 
5G Enhanced Technologies Ensure 
Continuous High-Intensity 
Operations of Core Production 
IDOS 
Explosion
Unmanned mining truck
Patrol vehicle
Remote miningTDD NRFDD&TDD NRFDD&TDD NRUPF
5GCMine operation platformMining Transportation Washing Storage Loading
Intelligent
schedulingVideo
surveillanceVideo
surveillanceUnmanned
mining truckRemote mining Remote drilling
SPN
access ringFig. 1. 5G networking 
and coverage solution 
for open-pit mines.
37JUN 2023