and reliability in their industry 
application scenarios. Providing highly 
cost-eﬀective network connections has 
become one of the core capabilities of 
ToB networks. 
In the 5G network construction of 
WISCO, industrial control private 
networks are built in diﬀerent factories 
according to their specific service 
scenarios in the production domain. 
The ZTE 5G computing power base for 
industrial control provides an integrated 
solution that includes terminals, edges, 
clouds, networks, and services. It also 
provides end-to-end service connection 
monitoring. The typical capabilities of 
each part of the 5G computing power 
base for industrial control are as follows:
SE9102 is an industrial control gateway, 
which is an important component of 
the “terminals” and “edges”. In the 
project of WISCO, it is connected to 
both PLC and HD IP cameras, and 
oﬀers key network capabilities such as 
highly reliable transmission of control 
data and low-latency video backhaul. 
Industrial-grade product design with a 
protection level of IP66 can meet the 
requirements of various harsh 
environments. 
The dual-band 5G network (2.1 GHz+
3.5 GHz) ensures the security and 
reliability of the network to the highest 
degree through independent physical 
devices. On-site engineers can simulate 
more than 10 types of network faults to 
ensure that single-point radio link faults 
do not aﬀect services. Even if the 5G base 
station backhaul link is interrupted, the 
existing services on site can still be kept 
for more than 24 hours. 
The SE9102 and the NodeEngine base 
station with a built-in computing engine 
can collaborate to create an inter-
frequency dual-transmit optimal receptio n 
channel with a network latency of 
20 ms @99.99%. In addition, service After two years of exploration and 
practice, WISCO has developed a 
"1+N+X" 5G construction and application 
mode. 
“1+N+X” Mode
“1” Dedicated Core Network 
Traditional ToC core networks 
cannot meet the diverse requirements 
of industry users. To address this, a 
dedicated 5GC has been directly 
deployed in the WISCO campus to 
meet their requirements for physical 
device and data security isolation. This 
ensures that service data stays within 
the campus while also providing users 
with very low service latency and 
dedicated service SLAs. 
 
“N” 5G Shared Base Stations
Currently, 63 5G base stations 
(excluding private 5G network sites) 
have been built in the WISCO campus, 
with the 5G coverage rate reaching 
over 95%. This is one of the largest 
5G campus networks in China. These 
5G base stations can meet the network 
requirements of ToC users through 
network sharing, and the service 
requirements of ToB users through 
network slicing. At present, the 
outdoor 5G campus network can 
carry non-production services such 
as environment monitoring, device 
status monitoring, and HD video 
backhaul with the daily average 
data traﬃc reaching 4 TB. 
“X” Industrial Control Private 
Networks
Compared with ToC networks, ToB 
networks have stricter requirements 
for network capabilities such as delay 
40Success Story