Core Requirements and Challenges 
of the 5G Field Network
Traditional industrial control networks 
connect all devices through wired networks, 
such as industrial Ethernet and /f_ield buses, 
with programmable logic controller (PLC) at 
the core. However, this presents several 
challenges for the digital transformation of 
the industrial control network. First, wired 
networks are diﬃcult to deploy and prone 
to failures, which don’t allow the production 
lines to make quick adjustments, resulting in 
low /f_lexibility and hard service upgrades. 
Additionally, the traditional PLC ecosystem is 
closed, and regular upgrades of software 
and hardware can be costly. 
We have implemented 5G digital 
transformation in many industries. For 
example, in a steel-making enterprise’s cran e 
scenario, 5G is utilized to support wireless 
PLC northbound connection between the 
unmanned crane and its control system. This 
allows convenient deployment of the crane 
while avoiding many hidden troubles and 
fault points caused by moving cables. In an 
automatic logistics sorting scenario, a large-
scale automatic control center requires the 
cooperation of PLCs with thousands of I/O 
points. By using 5G technology, the master-
slave PLC system can be connected wirelessly, 
greatly simplifying the cable deployment and facilitating the upgrade of the automatic 
logistics sorting system. Furthermore, 
in 3C electronics manufacturing where 
elastic production is a signi/f_icant 
requirement, 5G technology can be 
used to enable wireless PLC southbound 
connections between the PLC and the 
end equipment, enabling /f_lexible and 
elastic production. 
After analyzing typical /f_ield network 
scenarios, we’ve found that using 5G to 
serve the /f_ield applications should be done 
step by step, and there are three top 
challenges to be addressed when 
implementing 5G /f_ield networks. 
Diﬃculty in performance guarantee:  
With 5G-driven cord-cutting, the 
deterministic requirements have become 
higher and higher. For example, the 
southbound communication of PLC 
requires ultra-low latency assurance.
Requirement of cloud, network and 
applications:  Applications are key to 
digital transformation of industries. How 
can we easily deploy all kinds of 
applications? We need to take into 
account cloud platform and applications 
besides the 5G network.
Complex network O&M:  Although 5G 
provides convenience to applications, 
traditional 5G networks are really 
complicated for enterprise self-O&M. 
Fig. 2. Three key 
capabilities of 
5G /f_ield network.
Node Engine Edge gatewayOne-stop 
cloud & network products
Simplified O&M
for enterprisesAll-in-one
managementLightweight
deploymentApplication
oriented5 in 1
Deterministic guaranteeUltra-low
latencyUltra-low
jitterUltra-high
reliability
Campus Shop/f_loor Production
line
 IT domain
Production management
OT domainField bus or RT Ethernet
Process control, actuator, controllerIndustrial Ethernet
Data collection and monitor
5G field network
125G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic