and intelligent 5G industrial gateway are 
based on the carrier-grade TECS Cloud 
Foundation (TCF), supporting on-demand 
deployment of third-party industrial 
applications such as manufacturing 
execution system (MES), warehouse 
management system (WMS), supervisory 
control and data acquisition (SCADA) and 
cloud-based programmable logic controller 
(PLC). The 5G /f_ield network achieves the 
shortest path and optimal architecture 
from production devices to the platform, 
deeply integrates with OICT, and creates a 
closed-loop of business operations 
between production devices.
Native deterministic network capabilities:  
The 5G /f_ield network natively supports 
end-to-end deterministic network capabilities 
such as URLLC enhancement, 5G LAN, time 
sensitive network (TSN), frame replication 
and elimination for reliability (FRER), board/
NE/link backup, and high-precision indoor 
positioning. It can provide a deterministic 
performance guarantee for core production 
operations such as industrial control.
Lightweight equipment and simplified 
networking:  The lightweight 5G core network 
i5GC is based on carrier-grade 5GC and only 
includes essential 5G network functions. It 
adopts a uni/f_ied virtualized network function 
(VNF) design and simpli/f_ies the internal 
communication mechanism, requiring only a 
single server at its simplest con/f_iguration. 
The industrial base station and intelligent 
industrial gateway achieve high integration, hyper-convergence, and industrial-grade 
high reliability. With end-to-end 5G LAN 
Layer 2 communication capabilities, the 5G 
network provides simpli/f_ied networking 
where “devices hop onto the platfrom” 
without the  need for deploying and 
con/f_iguring tunnel devices, seamlessly 
connecting or smoothly replacing 
traditional wired production networks.
Multi-protocol one-stop access:  The industrial-
grade intelligent 5G industrial gateway 
SmartEdge 6100 supports rich access modes 
such as RS-485/232, CAN, Ethernet or WiFi, 
as well as a variety of industrial protocols 
such as CANBus, Modbus, EtherCAT, OPC UA, 
and S7 Comm, which can seamlessly connect 
with diﬀerent types of industrial equipment.
Free from planning, debugging and O&M: 
Customers can be free from network 
planning through 3D laser environmental 
survey, 3D modeling and business-oriented 
network pre-planning. They can be free 
from network debugging through factory 
pre-installed software version, out-of-the-
box on site, one-click modi/f_ication, and 
hour-level commissioning. They can 
also be free from network O&M through 
service-oriented terminal and service 
supervision, visual presentation, automatic 
maintenance and optimization.
Application and Practice
The 5G /f_ield network solution is applicable to 
the construction of 5G fully-connected factories 
Fig. 1. 5G /f_ield 
network solution.
Production
line/shop/f_loor
5G CPE
APP
TCF...pRRUOT-i5GCPrivate cloud Operator 5GC
pRRU
RRU/AAU5G industrial gateway
5G modules 5G field networkTCFAMF SMF UPF PCF UDM ...
TCFNR IDOS vPLC IMS iMES ...
5G industrial
base station
PLC SwitchData acquisition
Machine vision inspection
PLC control
AGV schedulingSwitch PLC
Sensor/
actuatorIO module
AGV Unmanned forkliftIndustrial camera
15JUN 2023