and improved welfare for project teams. 
These initiatives are part of EMR's way of 
expanding its infrastructure.
EMR is also focusing on providing 
coverage to residential areas and 
small-medium enterprises. In addition to 
building infrastructure, EMR is building 
strategic partnerships and collaborating 
with trusted partners to expand its 
services even further. EMR believes that 
good infrastructure delivers good internet 
services, which will maintain customers 
better. Therefore, it is committed to 
continually improving its infrastructure 
and services.
On the core network side, EMR has 
upgraded its infrastructure to handle the 
anticipated 1 Million subscribers without 
congestion. EMR has moved from 10G 
and 40G to 100G interfaces as well as 
transformed intercity backhaul/uni00A0 from using 
Metro Ethernet to DWDM.
By investing in infrastructure, 
developing initiatives, and building 
strategic partnerships, EMR can 
provide the best internet services to 
its customers and continue to expand 
its reach in Indonesia. 
What new technologies are you 
looking to leverage in order to 
deliver the best user experience?
EMR is always looking for new 
technologies to enhance its customers' 
experience. One such technology is 
auto-detection, which enables EMR to 
detect problems before they become 
signi/f_icant issues. With this technology, 
EMR can oﬀer proactive solutions to its 
customers and enhance their experience. 
Moreover, EMR promptly noti/f_ies its 
customers of any problems and oﬀers 
solutions to help them resolve issues 
quickly and eﬃciently.
EMR continuously develops new 
products that cater to its customers’ primary challenges is infrastructure, as 
EMR must continue to expand its 
infrastructure to provide the best 
possible internet service to its customers. 
Nonetheless, EMR perceives this as an 
opportunity and has set a goal of 
expanding to up to 50 cities in Indonesia 
by the end of the year by constructing 
additional infrastructure.
Keeping up with the ever-changing 
technology landscape is another 
challenge, but EMR remains current by 
adapting to the latest market trends and 
needs. One of the opportunities that EMR 
identi/f_ies is that Indonesia is a rapidly 
developing country with an increasingly 
digitally literate population. In particular, 
after the pandemic, more people rely on 
the Internet for their daily activities, 
making it an essential need for everyone. 
EMR strives to be the solution of choice 
that people turn to for assistance with 
their daily activities.
EMR also acknowledges that infrastructure is 
a signi/f_icant challenge, but it has implemented 
initiatives in its business processes that have 
earned recognition from the Asian Telecom 
Awards 2023 as the Infrastructure Initiatives 
of the Year (Indonesia). By continuously 
enhancing its processes and infrastructure, 
EMR can overcome challenges and capitalize 
on opportunities to remain successful in the 
ever-evolving digital age.
How are you expanding the 
infrastructure and services for 
your customers?
EMR is expanding its infrastructure and 
services to provide the best internet 
services to its customers. Firstly, EMR has 
made many breakthroughs and 
innovations in its infrastructure projects 
throughout 2022. These breakthroughs 
include business process automation, 
end-to-end integrated data management, 
funnel and market analysis for expansion, 
04VIP Voice