looking forward to building a strong 
relationship with ZTE and collaborating 
more in the future to establish more 
breakthroughs in infrastructure projects.
Where do you see the telecom 
industry going within the next 
few years?
EMR /f_irmly believes that the telecom 
industry will continue to thrive and develop 
high-tech initiatives. With Indonesia's ongoing 
digital transformation and increasing 
digitalization among its people, the demand 
for high-speed internet connectivity is on the 
rise. This growing demand is also leading to 
increased market competition. However, EMR 
is con/f_ident that it can provide unlimited 
internet connectivity to meet the needs of 
both customers and businesses. In the 
coming years, the Indonesian government is 
expected to fully support the telecom 
industry to expand into underserved areas 
and contribute to the country's economic 
growth. Regarding technology, the market is 
expected to witness the development of FMC, 
5G technology, and IoT.
In conclusion, with its unwavering 
commitment to providing quality internet 
services, emphasis on infrastructure expansion, 
and ability to adapt to evolving market trends 
and needs, EMR is well-positioned to /f_lourish 
in Indonesia's telecom industry in the years 
to come.needs, such as symmetrical speed upload 
and download 1:1, unlimited data usage, 
and 100% /f_iber-optic connectivity.
To further enhance the user experience, 
EMR is exploring other new technologies, 
including arti/f_icial intelligence and 
machine learning. These technologies can 
assist EMR in analyzing customer behavior 
and predicting their needs, enabling it to 
provide even better services and stay 
ahead of the competition.
EMR and ZTE cooperated on the 
fiber network construction in 2022. 
What do you think of ZTE’s 
performance during the project 
and what’s your expectation for 
ZTE in the future?
EMR highly values its partnership with 
ZTE in the /f_iber network construction for 
2022. ZTE's performance has been fully 
supportive of EMR’s vision to be a source 
of pride for Indonesia. In 2022, EMR 
successfully added eight new cities to its 
coverage area, and this year, EMR is 
continuing to expand its reach to more 
cities. EMR and ZTE are working together 
to develop new technologies such as 
DWDM technology, which aims to increase 
the bandwidth of existing /f_iber networks. 
Additionally, EMR is developing ROADM + 
ASON and high-capacity BNG to further 
improve the quality of its services. EMR is 
05JUN 2023