requirements. According to customer 
requirements and deployment patterns, ZTE has 
proposed three modes for FRER networking.
Mode 1: SE+NE FRER
In the SE+NE FRER mode, uplink data is 
replicated through the gateway SE9102, 
transmitted separately through two 5G 
modules, and then converged, selective-
received and forwarded at the NE side. 
After being duplicated on the NE side, 
downlink data is received, de-duplicated 
and forwarded by two modules of the 
gateway SE9102, as shown in Fig. 1.
In the unmanned driving project of a steel 
hot rolling factory, multiple dedicated PADs 
are deployed to build an independent inter-
frequency physical dual-network in the 3.5 GHz 
and 2.1 GHz bands. The SE gateway is deployed 
for each travelling crane, and access control 
(one channel of PLC packets) and video data 
(two channels of HD IP cameras) are used 
together with NodeEngine to establish 
inter-frequency FRER channels. With the 
dedicated slices con/f_igured for control data and 
the EdgeQoS guarantee of NodeEngine, the 
delay eﬀect of control data on the FRER 
channels reaches 20 ms @99.99%. Compared 
with a single-frequency network, the reliability 
of the inter-frequency dual-network is enhanced 
from 99.99% to 99.9999%, which helps 
enterprises achieve unmanned on-site driving. 
Mode 2: SE+MEP FRER 
In the SE+MEP FRER mode, the FRER gateway 
function establishes tunnels with UPFs through 
internal ebridge modules of the MEC platform 
(MEP). The uplink data is duplicated through the 
gateway SE9102 and sent respectively through 
the two 5G modules. Convergence and selective 
forwarding are implemented at the MEP side. 
After being duplicated on the MEP side, 
downlink data is received, de-duplicated and 
forwarded by the two modules of the industrial 
gateway SE9102. 
ZTE has participated in building a 5G smart 
factory for a large steel company in China. To 
extend coverage of the 5G private network, control-plane and user-plane NEs of the core 
network i5GC such as AMF, SMF, UDM and 
UPF are moved down to the branch area of the 
steel company. This meets the needs of 5G 
network application of the production control 
system such as smart molten iron transport, 
unmanned transport of /f_inished hot-rolling 
products, driving positioning of travelling crane 
and intelligent warehouse management. In 
addition, a private dual-band wireless network 
(2.6 GHz+4.9 GHz) is built in combination with 
the SE+MEP FRER function to ensure that user 
services can satisfy network needs of high 
reliability and low latency. 
Mode 3: SE+UPF FRER
In the above two networking modes, NEs 
or MEC servers need to be deployed on the 
network side, which increases the deployment 
cost to some extent. Based on existing 5G 
network nodes, FRER can be built in UPF in the 
future, and the UPF+hot standby function will 
be implemented. When the active UPF fails, 
traﬃc will be smoothly switched over to the 
hot standby UPF, and UEs do not need to be 
oﬄine. This solution is highly integrated, 
reduces external dependency, and decreases 
deployment costs. It also reduces the number 
of network nodes, simpli/f_ies the network and 
improves network reliability, which is applicable 
to the scenario where UPFs are moved to edge 
in the campus network. 
FRER is one of the important solutions to 
ensure service reliability in the /f_ield of 
production control. It can be implemented in 
actual networks based on heterogeneous 
network architectures such as 5G+WiFi, 
5G+wired, and 5G dual-band. The FRER 
redundancy transmission mechanism improves 
the success rate of end-to-end traﬃc data 
transmission and ensures the reliability of 
accurate data transmission and reception. This 
provides deterministic service guarantees such 
as delay, reliability and availability in ToB 
industrial application scenarios. FRER is 
therefore a complete service-based 
high-reliability solution.
23JUN 2023