Business in Complex Open-Pit 
Mine Scenarios
The FDD+TDD dual-band network uses 
diﬀerent features of FDD and TDD to 
complement each other in coverage to 
meet the changing mine environment. 
When the unmanned mining truck is 
moving, it can be connected to an 
appropriate frequency through the 
inter-frequency interoperability policy 
to achieve dynamic load balancing. 
The dual-frequency networking also 
improves network availability, preventing 
single-frequency network faults from 
aﬀecting production business.
For core production business such as 
unmanned mining trucks and remote 
electric shovel, frame replication and 
elimination for reliability (FRER) is used 
to transmit control instructions. The 
sender replicates multiple copies of a 
data frame that needs to be transmitted, 
generates a sequence number, and then 
transmits the data frame on a disjoint 
redundancy network path. At the 
destination, the copies are checked 
according to the sequence number 
of the data frame, and the duplicate 
ones are discarded. In this way, 
seamless redundancy transmission is 
implemented, and low-latency 
high-reliability guarantee is provided. 
When the mining truck needs to be 
taken over remotely due to a fault in 
self-driving, the video backhaul delay 
and picture quality can aﬀect the 
driving experience. ZTE’s industry-
leading ultra-low latency video 
transmission technology reduces the 
end-to-end delay from about 300 ms 
to less than 80 ms. Its video technologies 
such as error correction and packet 
loss prevention can ensure smooth 
high-de/f_inition pictures and improve 
remote driving experience. 
To meet the uplink large capacity requirements of unmanned mining 
trucks and remote electric shovels in 
open-pit mines, SuperMIMO is used in 
SuperCell networking to enhance the 
uplink capacity. Four distributed 8T8R 
RRUs are deployed to form a 32T32R 
multi-antenna system. In the MIMO 
system, multiple nodes send and receive 
signals in a uni/f_ied manner. On the 
premise of ensuring continuous self-
driving of unmanned mining trucks, 
the uplink capacity can be increased 
to ensure smooth backhaul of multi-
channel videos. 
The intelligence digital operational 
service (IDOS) for open-pit mine 
scenarios manages 5G terminals, NRs, 
UPFs, core network, and production 
businesses, and presents end to end the 
status and performance indicators of 
each node of service /f_low links. By 
setting guarantee requirements, quality 
monitoring, and problem identi/f_ication, 
demarcation and location, a closed-loop 
SLA guarantee is built to make the 5G 
private network better serve production 
operations of the open-pit mine. 
5G Private Network Continues to 
Empower Intelligent Transformation 
of Open-Pit Mines
ZTE has assisted China’s operators 
in deploying 5G private network 
solutions in several open-pit mines in 
Xinjiang, Inner Mongolia, Shaanxi, and 
Anhui, which have passed commercial 
acceptance. In some projects, the 
mining trucks allow security personnel 
to get oﬀ the trucks, truly achieving 
unmanned operations—self-driving. 
With the growth of open-pit mining 
businesses such as unmanned mining 
trucks and remote electric shovels, 
5G private network will continue to 
enhance the intelligence of open-pit 
mines. 
385G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic