frame replication and elimination for 
reliability (FRER), PLC packet priority and 
scheduling timing orchestration, and 
mapping packets with diﬀerent priorities to 
TSN priorities. To ensure latency 
performance, several techniques are 
introduced such as mini-slots, DS frame 
structure, URLLC service preemption, uplink 
pre-scheduling, SR period parameters, and 
DRX function. Moreover, a series of 
enhanced designs are performed on the 5G 
air interface to trade redundancy resources 
for high reliability. For instance, control 
channel enhancement, low CQI/MCS table, 
and repeated transmission are introduced 
at the physical layer to improve fault 
tolerance of modulation and demodulation, 
and reliability of data transmission, and 
PDCP replication is introduced at the PDCP 
layer to improve data redundancy.
Reliable autonomy:  Improves data 
transmission reliability
For 5G networking in industrial /f_ields, 
dual-module connections are established 
through industrial CPEs while dual-frequency 
networking is used between industrial CPEs 
and industrial base stations. The FRER 
technology is enabled to greatly improve 
data transmission reliability. In addition, 
industrial base stations also provide 
"isolated site autonomy", which allows 
existing services to operate normally when 
the control plane of the base station is 
disconnected from the 5GC core network.
Network-service collaboration:  Enables 
the network to coordinate and adapt 
to services
On the industrial sites, there are various 
service scenarios, such as PLC control, AGV 
transport, machine vision, and data 
collection, which involve many service 
types that vary greatly. To ensure a re/f_ined 
guarantee of services in the wireless 
network, it is necessary to understand the 
service features and the requirements of each service for network transmission. 
Industrial base stations have the 
capability of "accurate identi/f_ication". By 
introducing the AI algorithm and analyzing 
data streams, these stations can dynamically 
identify service types and automatically 
match them with the requirements of QoS 
templates. Characteristics of the service 
/f_low may be further identi/f_ied, such as the 
survival time period of the PLC service, the 
I frame and the P frame of the video 
service /f_low, and the size, period, and 
arrival time of the packet. These features 
can be combined with air interface 
scheduling technology for re/f_ined 
processing. This elevates the control from 
the traditional service /f_low level to the 
service packet-level granularity, enabling 
the network to coordinate and adapt to 
services and achieve the precision eﬀects.
Computing and network integration: 
Centralized and cloud-based PLC 
computing power sharing platform
In traditional industrial production lines, 
a physical PLC acts as a bridge between 
application systems such as device data 
and IT network information processing, and 
plays a crucial role in data structuration 
and logic control. However, this approach 
has some disadvantages. First, the 
protocols between PLCs of diﬀerent 
manufacturers are not open, which poses 
challenges to the coordination and 
extension required by software-de/f_ined 
/f_lexible manufacturing. This requires an 
upgrade to the application system, 
resulting in latency and service reliability 
problems. Second, the private /f_ieldbuses of 
diﬀerent vendors are incompatible, making 
interconnection inconvenient, and the /f_ield 
device layer is tightly coupled with the PLC, 
increasing the operation and maintenance 
costs for enterprises. Finally, the digital and 
intelligent transformation of enterprises 
requires on-site network intelligence and 
big data. Traditional PLC devices cannot 
185G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic