traditional base stations, provides 
enhanced assurance of deterministic 
connection capabilities, making it possible 
for 5G to penetrate into the operational 
technology (OT) domain of the industrial 
production line. It also provides capabilities 
such as simple commissioning, /f_lexible 
network architecture, and integrated virtual 
PLC to ensure the value investment.
5G Industrial Base Station Solution
To meet the wireless and centralized 
requirements of the PLC in industrial 
production lines, the 5G industrial base 
station provides a cloud-network 
integrated base station solution. With a 
computing board added to the traditional 
base station, it provides functions such as 
precise clock synchronization, enhanced 
connection capabilities, deterministic delay 
guarantee, and support for centralized and 
cloud-based PLC. In addition to traditional 
base station functions, 5G industrial base 
stations oﬀer four key features:
Intrinsic determinism: Provides punctual 
and accurate data transmission services
Intrinsic determinism means the ability 
to provide punctual and accurate data 
transmission services between industrial 
base stations and 5G industrial CPE. 
This is achieved by integrating various 
technologies with the 5G air interface 
enhancement technology, such as clock 
synchronization for terminals and networks, 
precise gate control for jitter elimination, ith the deepening 
application of the “5G+ 
Industrial Internet”, 5G 
networks are playing an 
increasingly important role in enhancing 
the eﬃciency of traditional manufacturing 
and implementing the digital transformation 
of manufacturing. The 5G+ Industrial 
Internet has become an important force to 
promote the digital, intelligent, and green 
transformation of the industry.
In the current phase, 5G has moved from 
being used as an industrial campus 
network solution for auxiliary production to 
becoming an industrial /f_ield network 
solution for production line operations. 
Industry customers are integrating 5G into 
on-site production process control and 
have suggested centralizing the production 
line control rooms and moving them 
oﬀ-site, as well as using wireless PLC 
controllers to eliminate the need for cords. 
While the upper computer is moved up to 
a centralized place, the data will stay within 
the shop/f_loor or factory. This requires the 
5G network performance to be comparable 
to that of the wired network, which places 
new requirements on the 5G network, 
including deterministic connection, reliable 
guarantee, coordination between the 
network and industry service, and 
integration of the computing resources. 
To meet these requirements, ZTE has 
proposed the NodeEngine-based industrial 
base station solution. This solution, based 
on the basic network connections of the 
Chief Planning Engineer 
of RAN Product, ZTELi Yunhua5G Industrial Base Stations: 
Empowering 5G to Reach Deeper 
into Industrial Production
W
17JUN 2023