at the production line/shop/f_loor levels. It 
focuses on operational technology (OT) 
domain applications in industrial production, 
achieves ubiquitous connectivity of 
production elements and deep integration 
of OT and IT, and empowers digital and 
intelligent transformation of industrial 
manufacturing. ZTE, together with telecom 
operators and industry partners, has carried 
out extensive practice in the /f_ield of 
industrial manufacturing.
Full-Lifecycle Service 
A production line integration and 
service provider for certain equipment 
manufacturing deploys ZTE’s 5G /f_ield 
network solution on the production line of 
its end customer. The 5G /f_ield network can 
connect equipment on the production line, 
collect equipment data in real time, and 
provide full-lifecycle service including 
production line assembly and debugging, 
operation management, eﬃciency 
management, energy consumption 
management, predictive maintenance, 
and health assessment based on ZTE’s 
self-developed intelligent manufacturing 
data service platform. In addition to 
low-latency high-reliability end-to-end 
deterministic capabilities, the 5G /f_ield 
network also provides computing power 
and deployment environments for data 
acquisition and intelligent manufacturing 
data service platform, thus achieving 
all-in-one deployment of production, 
network and applications, IT/OT integration, 
and local real-time closed-loop of business 
operations in production lines.
Centralized Control
A logistics automatic sorting line 
provided by a logistics automation 
equipment and system integrator to its 
customer includes more than 20 PLCs 
and several industrial control servers. The master PLC of the line body and the 
slave PLC on the sorting trolley communicate 
in real-time through WiFi and leaky-wave 
cables, resulting in poor stability, high cost 
and diﬃcult maintenance. When using the 
5G /f_ield network, master PLCs of the line 
body are cloudi/f_ied and deployed on the 
industrial base station, while slave PLCs on 
the sorting trolley are cloudi/f_ied and 
deployed on the intelligent 5G industrial 
gateway. Through 5G, the master and salve 
PLCs can communicate in real time. 
Therefore, centralized control of multiple 
PLCs can be realized on the cloud and a 
large number of PLCs and industrial control 
servers are saved. This reduces costs and 
improve reliability.
Automatic Production
ZTE Nanjing Binjiang Factory has built its 
5G QCell production shop/f_loor based on the 
5G /f_ield network. The 5G QCell production 
shop/f_loor has achieved automated 
production from raw materials to /f_inished 
products. It reduces labor costs, increases 
the product quali/f_ication rate, and improves 
production eﬃciency. Its main application 
scenarios include 5G-based GV, 5G-based 
machine vision, 5G-based SMT, 5G-based 
data acquisition, 5G-based cloud PLC, and 
5G high-precision indoor positioning.
ZTE’s 5G /f_ield network solution is 
specially designed for 5G to enter the 
core production process. It features 
lightweight and simplicity, cloud-
network integration, native determinism 
capabilities, and customer self-service. As 
a cloud-network base, it supports the 
comprehensive connection of production 
elements, production links, and business 
processes. It is a preferred solution for 
the construction of 5G fully-connected 
factories in production lines/shop/f_loors, 
enabling digital and intelligent upgrade 
of industrial manufacturing.
165G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic