ndustry is not only the major force 
of the national economy, but also 
the foundation of social economic 
development. In recent years, China 
has been proactively promoting the 
integration of 5G and industrial Internet. 
The 5G industrial Internet has gradually 
become an important pillar for China’s 
new industrialization. 
After years of exploration, ZTE has 
released the 5G solution called “1 campus 
network + N /f_ield networks” which aims to 
integrate 5G applications into the domains 
of manufacturing and operation. This 
solution supports the construction of 5G 
fully-connected factories covering campus 
network, shop-/f_loor network and 
production-line network, facilitating the 
expansion of the 5G industrial Internet. 
Why We Need the 5G Field Network 
Various industries, including steel-making, 
mining, port, metallurgy, and manufacturing, 
are actively pursuing digital transformation, 
guided by the forerunner enterprises. For 
example, in the steel-making industry, there 
has been an increase in investments for 
informatization, digitalization and intelligence with more than 80% of China's 
steel-making enterprises promoting 
intelligent manufacturing. 
China keeps promoting the transformation 
of traditional industries, and the Chinese 
Ministry of Industry and Information 
Technology, along with multiple departments, 
has launched policies such as the 5G 
Application “Sailing” Action Plan, 5G 
Industria l Internet Promotion Plan, and 5G 
Fully-Connected Factory Construction Guide. 
The aim is to extend the 5G industrial 
applications from peripheral activities to 
core  production activities and promote the 
industrial transformation.
5G, as a wireless technology, will be 
gradually introduced into the production 
domain. For industry customers, the high 
performance and wireless features of 5G will 
fundamentally change their working modes, 
facilitate elastic production, and unlock 
potential bene/f_its in multiple aspects such 
as production capacity, revenue, manpower, 
and security. Deeper integration of 5G into 
ZTE RAN Product Solution 
DirectorNi Yanzi
Chief Expert of ZTE Wireless 
Industry SolutionShu Yu
1+N Solution Extending 
5G from Campus 
Network to Field Network
I
105G Fully-Connected Factory Special Topic