computing power, large video memory, high-speed 
interconnection and high-performance concurrent 
multiple storage are chosen to improve system 
parallel operation rates, thereby boosting cluster 
computing power. Additionally, the independently 
developed DPU smart NIC provides a lossless network 
with ultra-large bandwidth and ultra-low latency, 
enhancing overall reliability and eﬃciency. 
Regarding the resource management platform, 
multiple heterogeneous hardware devices are 
connected to meet eﬃcient resource management 
needs for AI model training and inference. ZTE’s AI 
resource management platform, TECS, provides job 
scheduling and intelligent computing cluster 
management, including computing enhancement 
(such as vGPU technology), storage enhancement 
(such as supporting high-performance /f_ile storage), 
network enhancement (such as supporting integrated 
communication technology), and cluster management 
scheduling. 
TECS is an enhanced product based on the original 
self-developed general computing resource 
management product, tailored for AI model training 
and inference requirements. It can function separately 
from the original product and integrate seamlessly to 
achieve uni/f_ied management and orchestration of 
general and intelligent computing, or can be 
independently deployed to manage and orchestrate intelligent computing resources. 
In product solution, ZTE has launched an all-in-one 
(AIO) out-of-the-box training machine to accurately 
meet the requirements of industry secondary training 
and real-time inference service scenarios, as shown in 
Fig. 2. This all-in-one machine integrates computing, 
storage, network devices, and AI platform software, 
supporting mainstream AI frameworks. It minimizes 
costs for training and inference of private domain 
models while lowering technical thresholds. This 
means that users do not need complex deployment 
and con/f_iguration procedures, and can be put into 
operation quickly, achieving /f_lexible allocation of 
training and inference resources.
Security Is the Basis
Among the three basic elements of AI—computing 
power, algorithms, and data, computing power is the 
core element and primary driver for the 
comprehensive advancement and rapid application of 
AI systems. Therefore, it is critical to provide secure 
and reliable computing power. ZTE focuses on 
developing intelligent computing power, striving to 
establish multi-channel supply chains both 
domestically and internationally, speci/f_ically tailored 
to AI model training and inference scenarios. ZTE 
provides a complete set of mature solutions based on 
high-performance AI servers and IB switches sourced 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JUN 2024
15 