telecom sector. ZTE actively cooperates with 
telecom operators to jointly promote their 
transformation to autonomous networks. 
ZTE partners with three major operators in 
Wuhan to implement precise 5G planning and 
improve user experience through innovative NGI 
applications. It makes grid-level or building-level 
5G coverage evaluation based on NGI, performs 
value evaluation based on complaint scenarios of 
traﬃc terminals, and obtains multi-dimensional 
building-level pro/f_iles. This approach focuses 
on residential areas, identifying high-value 
residential zones and providing guidance for the 
application of scenario-based solutions. 
ZTE’s alarm/uni00A0 automation/uni00A0 expert/equipment 
fault protection (AAX/EFP) interfaces with 
Hubei Mobile’s dual-platform production 
system, facilitating rapid enhancement of 
its automation capabilities. Leveraging the 
AAX and EFP intelligent O&M solution, ZTE 
implements seamless interconnection with 
Hubei Mobile’s centralized fault management 
system platform and automation platform for 
alarm root cause diagnosis and identi/f_ication 
of base station potential faults. After 
interconnection, AAX achieves an accuracy of 
over 90% in locating front-line O&M service 
outage faults, resulting in a 30% improvement 
in fault location eﬃciency. EFP reduces the 
potential risk screening and handling process 
work/f_low by 45%, leading to a 43% increase in 
the average weekly handling of fault sites.
ZTE’s poor NQI cell analysis and RAIS 
interference analysis functions help Hubei 
Mobile improve eﬃciency and quality 
in multiple dimensions. The NQI tool is 
successfully interconnected with Hubei 
Mobile’s production system, and NQI analysis 
tasks are established to ensure a 100% match 
of performance tickets. Moreover, the system 
algorithm is used to improve the eﬃciency of 
both poor quality analysis and interference 
analysis.
Joint Innovation Maximizes Network Value
Considering the speci/f_ic local network conditions and customer requirements in Wuhan, ZTE 
tailored its approach and planned nearly 20 
innovative projects for operators in early 2022. 
Several key projects have been deployed in 
the production environment and are being 
continuously utilized. 
In scenic spots such as Donghu Meiyuan and 
Tan Hualin in Wuhan, ZTE assisted Hubei 
Mobile in creating an ultimate experience. 
Utilizing technologies such as 2.6G+4.9G 
carrier aggregation, it oﬀers impressive 
speeds of 2 Gbps for downlink and 300 Mbps 
for uplink. 
ZTE assisted Hubei Mobile in leveraging the 
automatic AAPC weight optimization function 
to automate network weight optimization 
in scenarios involving overlap coverage 
and out-of-service compensation. Through 
statistical estimation of cell UE distribution 
and neighbor cell interference by eNodeB, the 
solution comprehensively considers network 
coverage performance to achieve adaptive 
adjustments. Additionally, it helps eNodeB 
intelligently estimate optimal broadcast 
weights, thus achieving optimal coverage.
In certain university scenarios in Wuhan, ZTE 
helped Hubei Telecom deploy the tidal AAPC 
function on a large scale to address a variety 
of coverage scenarios. This ensures adaptive 
and /f_lexible adjustment of broadcast weights. 
Through fast and intelligent network planning 
and optimization, it minimizes network 
deployment time and human resources, 
resulting in optimal coverage and performance 
gains across diﬀerent scenarios.  
ZTE helped Hubei Telecom take the 
lead to launch the innovative 5G AAU 
automatic start/stop energy-saving solution, 
minimizing the energy consumption of an 
inactive AAU to less than 5W in a zero-traﬃc 
status. This initiative has been put into 
commercial use on a large scale in Wuhan, 
providing full support to Hubei Telecom’s 
eﬀorts to promote low-carbon operation 
of its communication infrastructure. While 
guaranteeing network performance and 
user experience, it  maximizes the reduction 
40Success Stories