ith the rapid development 
of information technologies, 
digital life has become a 
consensus and inevitable 
choice for the development of human 
society. The digital wave is profoundly 
changing the way of we produce and 
live. Mobile communication serves as the 
information base for the construction of 
digital society. Meanwhile, newly emerged 
mobile communication technologies 
are driving the development of a digital 
society. As the cornerstone of the mobile 
communications network, a secure and 
stable cloud core network is essential for 
information communication and transfer 
in a digital society. ZTE’s Cloud Core 
Network products prioritize security, and 
aim to build, maintain, and operate a 
secure and stable core network from three 
aspects: high reliability, trustworthiness, 
manageability. 
Highly-Reliable Network Ensures 
Security 
A highly-reliable architecture and 
highly-reliable products are essential for 
secure network operations. ZTE’s Cloud Core Network oﬀers a highly-reliable 
and secure network from three aspects: 
intra-NE, inter-NE, and the network layer. 
Intra-NE Reliability
ZTE’s Cloud Core Network equipment 
is built on a stateless architecture that 
separates services and data, enabling 
resource elasticity without service loss. 
During the elasticity process, user status 
data remains intact, ensuring service 
continuity. The service components also 
support N+M full load sharing, meaning 
that if one component fails, other 
components take over the services in 
real time to ensure that services are not 
aﬀected. VMs or containers of the same 
type in an NE are deployed in anti-aﬃnity 
mode, distributed across diﬀerent physical 
hosts or bare machines. In the event of 
a host failure, the VMs or containers can 
perform local self-healing or remote 
regeneration to complete self-recovery. 
Inter-NE Reliability
The Cloud Core Network oﬀers various 
backup modes, including inter-NE load WBuilding a Secure Cloud Core 
Network to Consolidate the 
Foundation of Digital Society
Chen Xinyu, Vice President and General Manager of Cloud and Core Network Products at ZTE
12Expert Views