Fig. 1. Data architecture 
of cross-domain 
collaboration solution 
for autonomous networks.analysis and processing of big data, it 
intelligently analyzes and precisely locates 
problems, ranging from individual call 
detail records to the entire network. 
Moreover, VMAX extends its capabilities and 
interconnects intelligent tools from diﬀerent 
domains through the OpenAPI interface. 
Leveraging intelligent core algorithms, 
this approach addresses the challenge 
of diverse protocols and characteristics 
in individual domains, which previously 
hindered collaborative eﬀorts. By taking a 
multi-layered approach that encompasses 
native network elements, single-domain 
automation, and cross-domain collaboration, 
it enables automatic closed-loop of 
full-domain network automation and 
problem handling (Fig. 1). 
In the complaint handling scenario, the 
typical approach heavily relies on manual 
intervention with tools from individual 
domains as auxiliary support. However, this 
can result in lengthy complaint processing 
cycles and substantial expenditure of 
manpower resources. To address these 
challenges, ZTE leverages its VMAX big data 
platform that employs cutting-edge data 
mining algorithms to achieve end-to-end 
automatic complaint demarcation, covering 
terminals, transmission, wireless, core networks, and SPs. The platform also 
correlates wireless measurement reports 
(MR), performance data, and alarm data. 
Through fault tree analysis across various 
complaint user scenarios, user-level root 
causes can be drilled, and problems can 
be located and handled quickly. In some 
scenarios, automatic closed-loop of 
complaint handling can be achieved. For 
example, in the TNR coverage problem 
analysis, the platform utilizes ZTE’s 
wireless intelligence function—automatic 
antenna pattern control (AAPC) through 
an OpenAPI interface. By employing the 
AAPC weight optimization solution, it 
automatically distinguishes the scenarios 
with coverage problems and establishes 
a relative coordinate system based on the 
direction of arrival (DOA) data, enabling 
automatic weight optimization without 
relying on engineering parameters. This 
ensures personalized weight deployment 
and automatic optimization with a 
“one-station, one-scenario, one-weight” 
approach, leading to true “zero-touch” 
fully automated optimization. According 
to the evaluation criteria of TMF 
Autonomous Network Whitepaper 4.0, this 
scenario almost achieves L4 automation 
capability. Additionally, it interconnects 
Single-domain
intelligence
tool
OSS
intelligence
platform
Data collectionAAPC
(Wireless)
AIMIND
Wireless data Bearer data Probe dataCCA fast
demarcation
CCH precise
location
Automatic
closed loopCustomer
complaint
handling 
platform
Core network
dataFMS PMSAAX
(Wireless)BigDNA
(Bearer)Magiceye
(Core network)
VMAX
22Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic