of end-to-end user perception. In terms 
of voice services, functions like intelligent 
pre-scheduling, intelligent resource 
allocation, and adaptive handover 
optimization eﬀectively improve MOS 
and latency indicators. For data services, 
functions such as intelligent pre-scheduling 
for web browsing, intelligent AMC, 
adaptive CFI optimization, intelligent 
downlink scheduling, user location-based 
load balancing, and service-based 
inter-frequency handover all  contribute to a 
notable improvement in perception-related 
elements like data rates and latency. 
Good network quality is the basis for 
guaranteeing user experience. Based 
on the concept of self-discovery and 
self-optimization, ZTE continually advances 
the autonomous capability of network 
maintenance to enhance network quality. 
In a latency perception optimization project 
for an operator, ZTE performance experts 
leveraged uSmartNet’s big data perception 
analysis capability to comprehensively 
analyze the reasons behind variations in 
user-perceived latency and performed 
multi-dimensional analysis on the latency 
indicators for key services like games and 
videos that customers are concerned about. 
This approach enabled ZTE to quickly 
demarcate and locate problems, thereby 
enhancing network quality in the areas of 
weaknesses. From the perspectives of time 
domain, area domain, service, and NE, ZTE 
formulated a cross-domain end-to-end 
optimization strategy covering wireless, 
microwave, IPRAN, core network, IPCORE, 
international ISP links, and CDNs, and 
devised detailed latency enhancement 
plans for each product category. Through 
measures such as poor-quality service 
identi/f_ication and recti/f_ication, traﬃc 
balance, international link optimization, CDN 
cross-traﬃc optimization, transmission link 
optimization, and air interface scheduling 
optimization, the user’s experience about 
latency was greatly improved. This propelled the operator to the top position among 
many operators in China. 
Excellent network service quality can 
enhance user satisfaction and create brand 
value. The insights into market competition 
provided by third-party authoritative 
communication network testing and analysis 
organizations play an important role in 
the competitiveness of service quality that 
operators focus on. Organizations such as 
Tutela, Ookla, and Opensignal collaborate 
with widely-used market apps and secure 
necessary permissions. When a user opens 
an app authorized by a crowdsourcing 
enterprise, the app will track the base 
station connected to the mobile phone, 
measure the signal strength, and send this 
data anonymously back to the dedicated 
server deployed globally. The crowdsourcing 
platform can then use this data to analyze 
the network quality of diﬀerent operators 
in the same area and generate a report on 
network perception quality analysis. 
Though crowdsourcing data contains a 
large amount of third-party network data, 
it is limited to user terminal data and lacks 
network device data. As a result, it cannot 
be directly used to demarcate and locate 
perception problems. Operator only knows 
the results, but they cannot identify root 
causes or provide tailored solutions. In 
response, ZTE comprehensively explores the 
impact of users, terminals, NEs, and servers 
on crowdsourcing test results from multiple 
dimensions of big data. This approach 
identi/f_ies weaknesses and provides robust 
support for operators to enhance network 
evaluation. 
In the uSmartNet solution, the “Digital-
Intelligent Brain” explores the hidden 
relationships between crowdsourcing 
measurements and network performance, 
uncovering critical network performance and 
parameters. It deduces optimal parameter 
con/f_iguration models by using algorithms 
like random forest and decision tree to 
demarcate and locate related network 
34Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic