s 5G deployment deepens, the 
continuous emergence of new 
services and scenarios drives 
the evolution of networks, 
providing a high-quality network foundation 
for the new era of digital and intelligent living, 
industries, and society. Meanwhile, wireless 
networks are becoming increasingly complex, 
facing challenges such as multi-mode 
multi-band collaborative networking, 
diﬀerentiated QoS guarantee, bit-watt curve 
optimization, and operational eﬃciency 
improvement. To address these challenges, 
the introduction of arti/f_icial intelligence (AI) 
to enhance the intelligence and automation 
capabilities of wireless networks has become 
widely accepted in the industry.
Wireless Networks Evolving Towards 
Intelligence
Wireless network devices have witnessed 
a constant enhancement in computing 
power in recent years. In addition to 
ful/f_illing basic network functions, the 
collaborative computing power among 
multiple devices can support increasingly 
eﬃcient AI algorithms. Moreover, wireless 
networks have access to massive data 
generated by all users, allowing for nearby AI A
Nativeness and 
Openness: The Dawn 
of Wireless Network 
Intelligence
model training and near-real-time inference 
computations, facilitating instant network 
strategy optimization. Wireless networks 
now possess the three essential elements of 
AI, including computing power, algorithms, 
and data, making them well-prepared for 
intelligence.
From R15 to R18, 3GPP has de/f_ined the 
RAN intelligence architecture and has 
been continually pushing for the evolution 
of native intelligence within RAN. Native 
intelligence, as one of the core capabilities 
of 5G-Advanced, supports the intelligent 
transformation of wireless networks, meeting 
the requirements for new capabilities, 
services, and technologies in the future. 
After years of exploration, wireless network 
intelligence has evolved from a technical 
concept to a reality, thanks to the collective 
eﬀorts of the industry, and is now steadily 
moving towards commercialization.
ZTE has begun its research on wireless 
network intelligence and its applications in 
commercial networks since the pre-research 
stage of 5G networks. Currently, it has 
established a comprehensive network 
intelligence architecture that can support a 
wide range of intelligent network applications, 
tailored to diﬀerent real-time demands, 
operational frequencies, and complexities.Li Xiaotong
Vice President of ZTE and General Manager of RAN Products
09OCT 2023