to implement in the Philippine market, 
speci/f_ically for Globe. The /f_irst practice 
is focused on our ways of working. This 
involves making use of tools, dashboards 
and automation to simplify our operations. 
The second one is centered on customer 
experience optimization. This relies a lot on 
partners like ZTE to deliver to us innovative 
technologies and radio solutions, so that we 
can provide better services to our customers.
 
How do you think the company 
should technically advance, 
and what is your strategy for 
maintaining Globe’s leading 
position in the country?
Today, my /f_irst focus is on automation and 
simpli/f_ication. This includes how we bring 
data together, how we use AI to simplify some 
tasks, and how we use digital technologies to 
make things simpler.
The second area of focus is our transport 
network strategy. One of the most important 
considerations for customers is availability, 
which is closely related to reliability. They 
expect to be able to use network anytime, 
anywhere they need it. Therefore, our 
challenge lies in delivering a reliable network. 
To achieve this, one of the things we need to You have rich experience in the 
telecom industry across APAC. 
What trends have you observed 
in the APAC region? 
I have previously worked in Singapore, 
Australia, and now in the Philippines. While 
the focus is slightly diﬀerent in diﬀerent 
markets, the common theme has been on 
how to do things more eﬃciently and more 
eﬀectively. Initially, there was a strong 
focus on utilizing data and doing analytics. 
However, over the past year or so, there 
has been a shift towards leveraging AI to 
improve the customer experience. 
While many people are talking about AI 
chatbots, our focus on the technical and 
network sides is centered on using AI to 
detect issues faster, determine where the 
issues are in the network, and identify the 
problems that our customers are facing with 
their mobile phones or their mobile streaming 
experience. Given the large amount of data 
involved, AI is needed to help. Undoubtedly, 
AI has become a major trend. 
Any best practices you would like to 
apply to the Philippine market? 
There are two practices that I would like lobe Telecom, a major provider of telecommunications services in the Philippine, faces the 
challenge of providing reliable connectivity and enabling the digital lifestyle across the 
country’s vast archipelago of more than 7,100 islands. Yoke Kong Seow, Chief Technical 
Advisor of Globe Telecom, shares insights into the company’s strategic focus areas, digital 
transformation approach, and connectivity eﬀorts to address this challenge.G
07OCT 2023