Chief Technical Delivery 
Engineer of ZTE Big Data 
ProductsLi RuimingAutonomous Network Construction: 
E2E Automatic Collaboration for Complaint 
Handling and Hidden Risk Identi/f_ication
s 5G networks are extensively 
deployed and the digital 
economy continues to grow, the 
construction and operation of 
communication networks face more 
requirements and challenges. In particular, 
the proliferation of multiple frequencies 
and standards has led to increasingly 
complex and vast communication network 
structures. Diverse terminals are heavily 
connected, accompanied by a rapid surge 
in diﬀerent types of service requirements. 
Traditional O&M methods are no longer 
adequate to meet customer eﬃciency 
and cost expectations, nor can they ful/f_ill 
the demands for user experience. With 
automation and intelligence as its core 
features to improve network quality and 
eﬃciency, an autonomous network is 
becoming a crucial trend in the future of 
communication networks.
In 2017, ETSI established the /f_irst standard 
organization for network intelligence, and 
later, ITU/3GPP/CCSA formed intelligent 
network projects. The development of 
autonomous networks began to take 
shape in 2019. Though certain areas have 
achieved partial automation capabilities, 
they mainly concentrate on intelligent tools 
and functionalities for individual domains 
and scenarios, lacking complete end-to-end 
automation. As a result, interconnections 
between diﬀerent /f_ields rely on manual Aeﬀorts, lacking automatic collaboration.
As the industry’s leading provider of 
integrated communications and information 
technology solutions, ZTE has conducted 
ongoing research into automation capabilities 
in areas like wireless, bearer, and core 
networks. It has achieved industry-leading 
levels in certain single-domain autonomous 
functionalities. However, to enhance 
autonomous capabilities of communication 
networks and assist operators in their 
digital transformation, it is necessary to 
improve end-to-end  (E2E) autonomous 
capabilities. Therefore, ZTE has proposed a 
full-domain autonomous network solution 
leveraging its VMAX big data platform. 
The solution seamlessly integrates diverse 
single-domain capabilities to achieve 
end-to-end intelligence. Particularly, two 
end-to-end scenarios—customer complaint 
handling and hidden risk identi/f_ication—have 
been successfully implemented in multiple 
projects, thus facilitating operators’ network 
intelligence enhancement and driving digital 
transformation.
ZTE’s uSmartNet full-domain autonomous 
network solution, built on its big data 
product VMAX, establishes seamless 
connectivity between various individual 
domains through relevant standard 
interfaces. It retrieves relevant con/f_iguration, 
alarm, and performance data from wireless, 
bearer, and core networks. Through the 
21OCT 2023