industries and users are all essential 
aspects of this role. It is through these 
eﬀorts that the industry, technology and 
customer leadership roles can be eﬀectively 
demonstrated. ZTE has established 
high-performance craftsmanship networks 
in over 100 countries and regions, assisting 
operators in enhancing network quality, 
user perception, and their network value. 
In China, ZTE collaborates with operators 
in prominent cities across the country, 
including Beijing, Guangzhou, Dalian, and 
Chengdu. They work together to create 
“Leading City” with a focus on product 
leadership, innovation leadership, brand 
leadership, and autonomous network 
leadership. This initiative not only builds 
5G superb networks but also provides 
users with ultimate network experience. 
Moreover, it empowers operators to 
develop leading 5G applications, thereby 
facilitating the digital transformation of the 
economy and society.
In Thailand, as AIS’s network equipment 
and solution provider in the northeast 
region, ZTE adheres to the brand 
philosophy of “Ultimate Service” and 
is committed to providing top-quality 
services and solutions to ensure AIS’s 
leading position in network quality and 
technology in this region. ZTE’s wireless 
AI solution uSmartNet-RNIA is dedicated 
to oﬀering a variety of automation 
and intelligent tools that cover the 
entire process of network planning, 
construction, maintenance, optimization, 
and operation. This helps customers 
improve O&M eﬃciency while reducing 
costs. After introducing its VMAX-R 
precision planning tool into AIS, ZTE has 
greatly improved the eﬃciency of AIS 
network planning, facilitating precision 
network construction. AIS’s existing 
network comprises seven diﬀerent 
network standards, including GSM, 
UMTS, FDD LTE, TDD LTE, NB-IoT, FDD NR, 
and TDD NR. The network architecture is extremely complex, which presents 
challenges for optimization. Considering the 
characteristics of network architecture, ZTE 
has worked with AIS to deploy an intelligent 
network optimization platform. This platform 
utilizes functions such as AAX alarm root 
cause analysis, EFP device health check and 
prediction, AAPC automatic antenna weight 
control, NQI automatic interference analysis, 
and TopN poor quality analysis to signi/f_icantly 
boost O&M eﬃciency in corresponding 
scenarios. Recently, ZTE has partnered with 
AIS and Qualcomm to successfully complete 
a 5G mmWave standalone (SA) test at the AZ 
Innovation Center in Bangkok. This approach 
dramatically simpli/f_ies the network structure, 
eliminating the need to deploy anchors in 
EN-DC or NR-DC, resulting in substantial 
Capex savings.
In Beijing, China Mobile Beijing Branch 
(Beijing Mobile) and ZTE signed a strategic 
cooperation agreement for intelligent 
computing innovation in 2023, con/f_irming 
that both parties would engage in deep 
collaboration in the /f_ields of computing 
networks and cutting-edge 5G innovation in 
the future. Beijing, renowned for its unique 
charm and vibrant technological innovation, is 
emerging as a beacon for 5G city development 
and a model for China’s digital economy. So 
far, Beijing Mobile has built more than 44,000 
base stations, accounting for over half of the 
total number of 5G base stations in Beijing. 
This achievement marks it as the largest and 
fastest metro 5G network in the world. Within 
the urban areas, encompassed by the Fifth 
Ring Road, the comprehensive coverage rate 
has soared to 99.6%, with over 15 million 
5G users. Utilizing a range of innovative 
technologies, the network provides a peak rate 
of 3 Gbps in key areas of Beijing, delivering an 
excellent user experience. 
In Guangzhou, China Mobile, in collaboration 
with ZTE and several partners, launched the 
“5G Leading City” initiative in 2021, aiming 
to enhance user experience through new 
5G infrastructure and facilitate the digital 
25OCT 2023