sharing, 1+1 mutual backup, and 1+1 
active/standby. The appropriate disaster 
recovery mode is determined based 
on the NE type. If a single NE fails, the 
system utilizes the NE’s disaster recovery 
mechanism to implement recovery 
between NEs and ensure fast service 
recovery. If all the disaster recovery NEs 
of a certain type fail, the bypass function 
of the adjacent NE interface is activated. 
This allows for timely bypassing the faulty 
NE, ensuring maximum continuity of user 
services. For example, the AMF and SMF 
support UDM bypass function, and each 
NF supports NRF bypass function. 
Network-Level Reliability
In order to ensure the overall reliability 
of the Cloud Core Network, it is important 
to meet the eight-level disaster recovery 
requirements during network planning and 
construction. Additionally, the resource 
pool should be built according to the 
remote dual-DC solution. In the event of a 
resource pool fault or an equipment room 
fault, services can be quickly switched over 
to a remote equipment room for quick 
service takeover. With the deployment of the hot standby function of NEs such 
as AMF/MME, SMF/GW-C, and UPF/GW-U, 
the takeover eﬃciency of the Cloud Core 
Network can be further improved, realizing 
smooth takeover of terminals without the 
need for reconnection. 
Sometimes, during the normal operation 
of the network, a fault may trigger a 
signaling storm where a large number 
of users access the network concurrently 
within a short period of time, exceeding 
the NE's ability to process signaling 
messages in a timely manner. In addition, 
when terminal access fails, it attempts to 
access the network repeatedly, resulting in 
network congestion. 
To eﬀectively prevent signaling storms, 
the core idea is to implement end-to-end 
/f_low control based on source control. 
The system accepts a proper number of 
users based on the end-to-end capability 
dynamically perceived by the source end. 
This ensures that the back-end NE can 
handle users within its capability range 
and avoids overload. To achieve this, the 
data domain AMF/MME and voice domain 
PSBC are used as the ingress NEs, and 
end-to-end /f_low control is jointly deployed 
based on the capabilities of the back-end As the cornerstone of the mobile 
communications network, a secure 
and stable cloud core network 
is essential for information 
communication and transfer in a 
digital society.
/gid00024 /gid00055 /gid00052 /gid00061 /gid00001/gid00045 /gid00056 /gid00061 /gid00072 /gid00068
13OCT 2023