s network technologies develop 
rapidly, the market competition 
is becoming increasingly 
/f_ierce. Telecom operators are 
confronted with a multitude of challenges 
from their competitors, spanning 
technology update, service quality, and 
operating costs. According to the latest 
GSA report released in June 2023, a total of 
535 operators in 162 countries or regions 
are investing in 5G networks, and 259 
operators in 102 countries and regions 
have launched or trialed at least one 5G 
service compliant with the 3GPP standards. 
As the global expansion of 5G network 
infrastructure continues, the complexity 
of networks within each operator 
deepens. The coexistence of 2G, 3G, 4G 
and 5G networks further compounds the 
challenges, resulting in high construction 
and maintenance costs. To address these 
challenges, operators must embark 
on a journey of digital transformation, 
incorporating emerging technologies like 
big data and AI. This ongoing eﬀort aims at 
continually improving their network quality 
and service competitiveness. Standing out 
in the /f_ierce competition has become a 
major concern of every telecom operator. 
ZTE has introduced the brand 
concept of “Ultimate Service” through 
deep cooperation with operators, 
aiming to provide global operators 
and industry customers with ultimate 
network experience through continuous 
exploration in critical areas of network services. This initiative is geared towards 
enhancing network value and driving the 
digital transformation and upgrading of 
operators. With over 38 years of experience 
in communication network deployment, 
ZTE’s global service team has developed 
the “Craftsmanship Network” construction 
solution based on the concept of digital 
network deployment. Throughout the 
entire process of network planning, 
construction, optimization, maintenance, 
and operation, ZTE adopts innovative 
ideas. This involves the use of cutting-edge 
innovative solutions, digital network 
deployment systems, and intelligent 
delivery tools to meet the diverse needs of 
operators, ultimately improving network 
quality and establishing a robust brand 
image. 
“Leadership” Role of Craftsmanship 
Network Construction
In the rapidly evolving landscape of 
communications technologies, telecom 
operators must maintain technology 
leadership to secure a competitive edge. 
In this process, the crucial role played by 
“Craftsmanship Network” construction 
in technology leadership is particularly 
important. Setting network construction 
goals that exceed industry standards, 
using state-of-the-art technologies and 
equipment, and delivering high-quality 
network services and user experiences 
to meet diverse needs of diﬀerent Building Networks with Ultimate 
Service and Craftsmanship
A
Vice President and 
General Manager of 
Technical Delivery of 
Global Services at ZTEHong Gongcun
Director of ZTE Integrated 
Technology Delivery Dept.Xu Zhengli
24Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic