Intelligent OTN Solution: Enabling  
Fast and Simpli/f_ied Deployment of 
Self-Healing Networks
Chief Engineer of 
Wireline Technology 
Support, ZTEChen Senecent years have witnessed a 
booming development within 
the global ICT sector. The 
deployment of 5G networks 
on a large scale is in progress, leading 
to an explosive surge in network traﬃc 
from various applications. Additionally, 
new technologies like intelligent driving, 
AI, and ChatGPT continue to emerge, 
imposing higher requirements on the 
rate and bandwidth of infrastructure 
networks. Enhancing digital intelligence 
of OTN foundational network has become 
a pressing need for network operators. 
ZTE has been exploring the realm of 
OTN intelligence and has introduced its 
collaborative solution integrating network 
management and control with WDM/OTN 
automatically switched optical network 
(WASON). Additionally, new intelligent 
technologies such as power balancing 
and /f_lexible grids have also been unveiled. 
These eﬀorts are aimed at building highly 
intelligent transmission networks for 
customers.
Management and Control Integrated 
Solution for End-to-End Management 
and Distributed Control
The traditional OTN management and 
control approach implements dynamic 
network restoration and control through 
a centralized mode. This method, when Rcompared to WASON’s operation on the 
device side, results in a longer interaction 
process. This, in turn, leads to increased 
uncertainty factors, including disrupted 
signaling channels between OTN 
management and control and the devices. 
As a result, stability issues emerge, thereby 
presenting signi/f_icant risks in engineering 
applications. Though the WASON function 
is stable and supports dynamic restoration, 
it lacks the global route computation 
capability, which becomes a bottleneck for 
supporting large networks with more than 
300 network elements (NEs). To leverage 
the advantages of both, ZTE has rolled 
out a collaborative solution that combines 
intelligent OTN management and control 
with WASON, enabling the management 
and control to have the route computation 
capability. 
As shown in Fig. 1, the management and 
control integrated solution utilizes the global 
perspective of the management and control 
server for end-to-end service allocation. 
It hands over the services with restoration 
attribute to the WASON distributed control, 
and the services with non-restoration 
attribute to the management and control 
server. This approach enables end-to-end 
management and control, promoting 
coordinated development of the control 
plane. Additionally, the WASON distributed 
control function is used to restore services 
and improve the operational stability of 
28Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic