Boosting Digital Economy 
Development in Wuhan with 
Ultimate Service
Director of Product 
Service Planning, ZTEZhang DongshengWuhan, often referred to as the 
“Gateway to Nine Provinces”, 
holds a signi/f_icant place in 
Chinese history. Its glorious 
past has given rise to the spirit of the new era 
in Wuhan, characterized by a commitment to 
innovation and excellence. This spirit not only 
upholds Wuhan’s historical legacy but also 
re/f_lects the aspirations and ambitions of the 
people of Wuhan for future development. As 
the cornerstone of the digital economy, Wuhan’s 
communication networks have witnessed rapid 
growth. ZTE has been working with operators 
in Wuhan in various aspects such as network 
quality enhancement, network expansion, 
network innovation, and industry applications. 
This collaborative eﬀort aims to increase network 
deployment and operation eﬃciency, improving 
network quality and user experience.
Ultimate Service Boosts Network Quality
ZTE continues its in-depth cooperation 
with network operators in the Hubei region 
of China, centered on the user’s perspective, 
jointly driving network quality improvement. In 
recent years, it has achieved outstanding results in tests conducted by the Chinese Ministry of 
Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) 
and network evaluations by network operators.
ZTE has assisted Hubei Mobile in prioritizing 
user experience and leveraging the network 
pro/f_iling system to enhance network quality. In 
2022, the number of complaint tickets in ZTE 
service area decreased by 20% year-on-year, 
leading to a signi/f_icant improvement in network 
quality.
ZTE has worked with Hubei Telecom to launch 
the VoNR optimization service, introducing its 
in-house VoNR EMI voice evaluation system. This 
system enables voice quality evaluation and 
optimization at the cell, CDR and slice levels on 
the network geolocation insight (NGI) platform. It 
facilitates rapid convergence and closed-loop of 
network problems, aiming to create an ultimate 
5G voice experience.
 
Digital Transformation Accelerates 
Upgrade to Autonomous Networks
The digitalization of the economy and society, 
along with the high-quality development of 
the information and communications industry, 
is propelling the digital transformation of the 
39OCT 2023