of energy consumption and emissions. 
5G+ Applications Create a Fresh Engine 
for Industrial Development
Since 2020, the 5G+ Industrial Internet 
Conference sponsored by MIIT and the 
Hubei Provincial Government, has been held 
consecutively in Wuhan for three years. Hubei 
is actively promoting the development of 5G+ 
applications to enhance the modernization of 
the industrial chain. ZTE is fully cooperating with 
operators to drive the digitalization upgrade 
across various industries.
ZTE partners with Hubei Mobile to build an 
intelligent 5G+ optical cable manufacturing 
factory in Wuhan, achieving full 5G coverage 
throughout the factory campus. Leveraging 
the functionalities of 5G+ automatic logistics, 
5G+ monitoring platforms, and 5G+ energy 
consumption data collection, while ensuring 
that all factory data remains within the campus, 
ZTE implements remote real-time visualization 
of production, comprehensive monitoring of 
the entire production process, and intelligent 
energy-eﬃcient manufacturing. This drives the 
digital transformation and upgrading of the 
enterprise. 
ZTE collaborates with Hubei Mobile to 
empower the pharmaceutical industry in 
Wuhan by building a 5G fully-connected 
traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) production 
line. Through cutting-edge technologies such 
as 5G, edge computing, and digital twin, ZTE 
provides an exclusive 5G private network 
with full coverage for the production campus, 
creating a virtual factory. It oﬀers industrial 
internet applications like automated guided 
vehicles (AGVs), 5G data acquisition systems, 
and remote integrated control, enabling 
visualized and intelligent management. As 
a result, production eﬃciency has seen a 
remarkable increase of over 30%.
ZTE works with Hubei Unicom in Wuhan to 
commercialize FRER functions extensively 
based on its edge computing gateway 
(SmartEdge) and computing base station (NodeEngine). This advancement has 
signi/f_icantly increased the proportion of 
data with a latency of less than 20 ms on 
FRER channels to 99.99%. This represents a 
two-nines increase in reliability compared to 
the single-frequency solution, thereby helping 
enterprises achieve unmanned on-site driving 
operations.
In China’s 14th Five-Year Plan, several crucial 
directives have been outlined. These include 
accelerating the large-scale deployment of 5G 
networks, elevating the standard of telecom 
equipment, core electronic components, and 
key software industries, building 5G-based 
application scenarios and industrial ecosystems, 
and promoting the eﬃciency enhancement of 
emerging sectors like 5G and big data centers. 
These requirements provide clear guidance 
for the future of various industries. ZTE will 
continue to work closely with operators 
worldwide to build robust networks, explore 
opportunities for new growth, and contribute to 
creating a favorable business environment for 
the booming development of Wuhan’s digital 
economy. ZTE conducts 2.6G+4.9G carrier aggregation test in Donghu Meiyuan
41OCT 2023