online through social media platforms like 
TikTok, where they can engage with customers 
and show what they have. The three key 
elements for Globe are reliable connection, 
access to a digital wallet (GCash in Globe’s 
case), and access to services like healthcare 
and others.
What is your plan to better engage with 
household customers and boost ROI? 
As the No. 1 mobile operator in the 
Philippines, we also recognize the importance 
of delivering quality broadband services to the 
Filipinos. We understand that the social and 
economic conditions of Filipinos are diverse, 
and many of our customers are earning their 
wages on a daily basis.
To address this, we are rolling out a new 
prepaid /f_iber service. This service allows 
customers to have a /f_iber connection, and 
when they want to have internet access, they 
can top up their broadband for a certain time 
period, such as 7 days or 15 days. Then they 
can wait until they need to use it again and top 
up. The introduction of prepaid /f_iber makes 
broadband available to the poorer sections 
of Filipinos, empowering them to uplift 
themselves and narrowing the digital divide. 
How do you see the future of connectivity 
evolving in the Philippines? What are 
your expectations for vendors like ZTE 
in this process?
We have made signi/f_icant investments in 
connecting all the islands. As part of this eﬀort, 
we have been building a lot of submarine 
cables and exploring the use of microwave 
and satellite to deliver services to remote areas 
or islands. This is one area we are partnering 
with ZTE. We are deploying ZTE microwave 
technology to enable us to deliver services to 
remote communities where it’s hard to deploy 
/f_iber. We’d love to work with ZTE to look at 
other wireless broadband technologies that 
can oﬀer cost-eﬀective solutions to Filipinos 
living in remote areas. focus on is our transport network, particularly 
our optical /f_iber networks. In countries like 
the Philippines where there are extensive 
infrastructure developments, we need to 
ensure that our transport network—our /f_iber, 
IP , Metro Ethernet networks—is resilient and 
free from any single points of failure.
What are some of the challenges 
you are facing as you implement 
your strategy? 
When it comes to automation and 
simpli/f_ication, the key challenge is getting the 
right talent or developing the right skills for our 
people as it requires a diﬀerent way of thinking 
and an understanding of how to use data and 
AI. Therefore, we’re focusing on equipping our 
people with new IT skills while attracting talent 
to join our group to help us do that.
The second challenge is ensuring the 
resilience of our network, especially our 
transport network. We’re in the process of 
re-architecting our transport network to make 
it robust and resilient. This involves bringing 
in a party to look at our entire architecture 
and help us see the things that we cannot see 
ourselves. Additionally, we are exploring the 
use of some new optical technologies to help 
us achieve long-haul optical transmission.
Digital transformation oﬀers endless 
opportunities and bene/f_its. What 
elements do you think are going 
to bring the necessary digital 
transformation and make an impact 
on society?
Globe has a very focused purpose: to uplift 
the lives of Filipinos. Filipinos face many 
challenges in improving their economy and 
education. As an enabler, Globe provides 
reliable connectivity and various tools that 
allow them to interact digitally and access 
services such as healthcare and mobile wallets 
for transactions.
With our connectivity, Filipinos can also 
engage in the digital economy and sell things 
08VIP Voices