transformation of various industries. They are 
committed to building Guangzhou into a “5G 
Leading City” with the leadership in network, 
application, and ecosystem. With the common 
goal of the Leading City initiative, Guangzhou 
Mobile and ZTE have worked together on 5G 
commercialization, technological innovation, 
and industrial applications. Utilizing ZTE’s VMAX 
NM central platform, both parties have made 
valuable explorations in improving 5G residence 
ratio, implementing pandemic tracking cards, 
and ensuring support for major events. By April 
2022, Guangzhou Mobile had reached a 5G 
residence rate of 90.17% and a traﬃc oﬄoading 
rate of 32.77%, ranking at the forefront among 
all provinces in China Mobile nationwide. 
In Dalian, China Unicom and ZTE are 
collaborating to evolve the PowerPilot 
energy-saving solution. They have launched 
the world’s /f_irst “Green Generation Network” 
in Dalian, which maximizes energy eﬃciency 
while minimizing network infrastructure. 
This innovation, combined with photovoltaic 
demonstration sites, signi/f_icantly reduces 
mobile network energy consumption, enabling 
environmentally friendly network operations 
and paving the way for a sustainable digital economy. Dalian Unicom and ZTE will 
continue to jointly build an intelligent, 
eﬃcient, and eco-friendly 5G network. 
In addition to energy saving eﬀorts, they 
have undertaken extensive research on 
network performance, such as collaborative 
perception consistency, 4G/5G synergy, and 
beam scenario strategies, all of which have 
enriched their experience in enhancing 5G 
perception in Liaoning province. Moreover, 
they have run the /f_irst trial of NSA/SA 
dual-mode networking solutions nationwide, 
and their development of 3G/4G/5G 
multi-mode equipment and solutions in the 
2.1 GHz band has provided a clear roadmap 
for future network planning and deployment.
In Chengdu, China Telecom and ZTE have 
jointly built a “5G Leading City” since 2020, 
aiming to set up a benchmark 5G network 
for Chengdu Telecom and create the 
Chengdu Telecom 5G brand. After years of 
operation, They have achieved remarkable 
success in various aspects, including 
comprehensive performance experience, 
innovative research projects, intelligent 
O&M, and re/f_ined methodology. Through 
the collaborative eﬀort, a three-dimensional, 
high-speed, and intelligent 5G network has 
been built, allowing the citizens of Chengdu 
to easily enjoy a wonderful life with indoor 
and outdoor speeds of up to 3 Gbps, 
providing large bandwidth for uploads and 
downloads. With the service-level smarter 
and more eco-friendly energy-saving solution 
PowerPilot, they have enhanced the city’s 
reputation as the “Park City Under the Snowy 
Mountains”. Additionally, they provide fast, 
accurate, stable and /f_lexible 5G private 
network solutions catering to diverse needs 
of small and medium-sized enterprises and 
industry leaders. Their advanced intelligent 
O&M technology makes the network smarter, 
stronger, and more reliable. This robust 
5G network infrastructure is injecting 5G 
intelligence to various industries, propelling 
traditional sectors such as healthcare, culture 
and tourism, and industry toward digital 
26Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic