slicing, multi-access edge computing (MEC), and 
cutting-edge oﬀerings like the 5G private network, 
which enables the /f_lexibility to tailor the network 
to speci/f_ic customer requirements. Recently, 
AIS launched "Paragon Platform," a one-stop 
platform to manage 5G, edge computing, and 
cloud computing, which will help industry and 
businesses level up their digital transformation. 
You once said in a panel discussion that 
more value will be created in 5G vertical 
solutions than in 5G horizontal solutions. 
How is AIS collaborating with industry 
players in terms of developing new 5G 
use cases?
AIS has a comprehensive ecosystem of 5G, 
which includes the interconnectivity with most of 
the technology domains, for example, IoT, Edge 
and Cloud. These enable AIS to create a wide 
range of solutions and services. 
With the new chapter of AIS in vertical 
sector, could you tell us more about AIS 
5G Use Cases?
As I mentioned earlier, AIS has expanded 
our service portfolio of 5G services to support 
various industry verticals such as Manufacturing, 
Transportation and Logistics, Property and Retail. 
We and our expert vertical partner have co-created 
5G solution to help our customer to overcome the 
obstacle they face in their vertical industry. The 
examples of AIS 5G use cases are:
Smart Manufacturing Use Case with Somboon 
Advance Technology:  AIS oﬀers a variety 
of 5G solutions, including 3D Vision-Robot, 
AS/RS-Warehouse, and unmanned AGV, 
enabling Somboon Advance Technology 
to transition into smart manufacturing and 
overcome the limitations inherent in the 
manufacturing industry.
Smart  Green Mining Use Case with SCG (Siam 
Cement Group):  The 5G Smart Autonomous 
Vehicle Solutions facilitate sustainable industrial 
advancement, managing routing for the 
shipment of materials and equipment within the industrial zone. This solution ensures 
continuous mutual connectivity, minimizing 
downtime and reducing CO2 emissions by over 
35% annually compared to traditional methods.
5G AI Autonomous Drone System Case with 
ARV Co., Ltd (part of PTT Exploration and 
Production):  AIS introduces the latest 5G use 
case featuring the 5G AI Autonomous Drone 
System, known as Horrus, marking a pioneering 
achievement by Thai engineers. Supported by 
AI to enhance its capabilities, these drones can 
operate autonomously along predetermined 
/f_light paths and schedules. They have the 
capacity to monitor and detect abnormal 
activities in real time, promptly alerting the 
Control Center.
How is AIS’s collaboration with ZTE 
contributing to Thai businesses, 5G 
adoption?
Our collaboration with ZTE is all about 
empowering businesses through 5G technology. 
AIS is the network service provider with the 
most frequency spectrum and the best network 
coverage in Thailand, and we give top priority 
to innovating for the country sustainably. We 
have strategically partnered with ZTE in three 
components:
Upgrading Thailand’s 5G network to world-class 
digital infrastructure, not only in the matter of 
speed, but also intelligence, controlling itself in 
real time (5G Smart Autonomous Network).
Jointly developing solutions for the business 
sector, for industry and for the wider public, 
and enhancing competitive capabilities under 
Thailand 4.0.
Delivering a vast range of 5G services to 
improve Thai people’s lives sustainably. The 
/f_irst 5G A-Z Center in Thailand is at the crux of 
working towards this goal. It is a transformative 
moment to unlock Thailand’s potential and 
take the country to the next level, focusing on 
business and industry. We have inaugurated 
Digital Transformation in productivity and 
management, which will directly power the 
country’s digital economy.
05OCT 2023