analysis capability is expanded through 
AI, increasing the device fault localization 
accuracy rate by 5%.
A large number of network changes 
occur during network deployment, which 
poses risks to stable network operation. To 
address this, ZTE has built an end-to-end 
operation security guarantee system 
that covers solution change formulation, 
implementation control, and result 
backtracking to ensure network change 
operation security.
The operation encapsulation tool, 
through its template library, designer, 
and executor, implements modular 
combination of operation scripts such 
as upgrade, cutover, and expansion. 
This reduces the diﬃculty and risk of 
formulating the operation solution while 
ensuring security. 
The iNet tool is installed on the operator's 
computer to automatically associate 
the operation plan, forbid unplanned 
operations, and automatically identify and 
intercept high-risk instructions to prevent 
misoperations. The smart EMS implements 
hierarchical management of network 
operations through the vault mode.
For operations that involve a wide range 
of areas and have high risks, managers need 
to authorize each operation individually. 
Real-time visualization through dashboards 
and large screens during operations ensures 
the transparency and controllability over the 
process and its eﬀects.
The combination of digitalization and 
intelligence presents new opportunities 
for improving the quality and eﬃciency of 
network deployment. In the future, ZTE will 
continue to adhere to the "ultimate service" 
concept, actively explore and implement 
new network deployment modes, stimulate 
the vitality of digital and intelligent 
transformation in the communications 
industry, and work towards a win-win 
digital and intelligent future.User experience assurance and 
prevention are common challenges faced 
by operators in complicated network 
architectures. ZTE’s VMAX big data 
platform addresses this with its real-time 
intelligent insight and correlation analysis 
capabilities. The platform uses KPI, KQI 
and QoE to establish a comprehensive user 
perception evaluation system, accurately 
restoring service perception. Based on 
the perception analysis and processing 
capabilities of wireless, bearer, and core 
networks, an end-to-end user perception 
analysis and optimization system is built. 
This system helps delimit and locate 
end-to-end poor quality problems, analyze 
user perception and network complaints, 
predict perception problems, and handle 
problems in a closed loop quickly. 
In terms of data services, the VMAX 
platform uses intelligent probe technology 
to collect various type of data, such as 
videos, games, live broadcast, QR scanning, 
webpage browsing, and OTT. It is capable 
of identifying encrypted services and oﬀers 
an industry-leading identi/f_ication rate of 
new services. VMAX can rapidly delimit 
end-to-end data to analyze the poor quality 
threshold and related wireless indicators.
For voice services, VMAX supports VoNR, 
EPSFB, and VoLTE service analysis to analyze 
poor-quality cells and user delimitation. 
VMAX also supports signaling trace and 
comprehensive evaluation in each phase. 
Moreover, it can associate calling and called 
parties in all scenarios with an end-to-end 
accuracy rate of over 95%.
In terms of user complaint handling, 
VMAX oﬀers closed-loop management by 
integrating with complaint work orders, 
and supporting end-to-end problem ticket 
dispatching, optimization, and veri/f_ication. 
This signi/f_icantly improves complaint 
processing eﬃciency. Fault delimitation 
and localization takes into consideration 
single-domain performance and alarm 
data, and the platform’s root cause 
20Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic