computing boards to traditional base stations, 
it enables elastic expansion and capability 
exposure of edge computing. The NodeEngine 
solution can be centrally managed and 
scheduled by the intelligent network brain, 
providing ubiquitous computing services. 
In 2021, ZTE launched a wireless 
intelligent orchestration solution based on 
the above-mentioned native intelligence 
architecture, including user orchestration and 
network orchestration. User orchestration 
focuses on delivering the best possible 
experience and resource eﬃciency by 
intelligently guiding users to optimal 
frequency bands and cells, thereby enhancing 
user satisfaction. Network orchestration 
aims to maximize 5G experience while 
ensuring the ful/f_illment of 4G network 
demands, providing operators with a more 
bene/f_icial resource sharing mode and 
improving network eﬃciency. 
In 2022, with the successful implementation 
of computing base stations and wireless 
intelligent orchestration, ZTE combined 
a range of achievements in system 
architecture, technological innovation, 
and commercial deployment of wireless 
network intelligence. This led to the oﬃcial 
launch of the comprehensive RAN Composer 
native intelligence solution. Leveraging 
the computing power, data, and algorithm 
services at the intelligent service layer, ZTE 
developed several intelligent applications at 
the application layer and rapidly advanced 
their commercial deployment in the /f_ield. 
The evolution of wireless networks 
towards intelligence has begun, and ZTE’s 
RAN Composer native intelligence solution 
has seen multiple intelligent applications 
deployed both domestically and overseas, 
showcasing its value in enhancing experience, 
eﬃciency, and network maintenance. Moving 
forward, ZTE will continue to advance the 
process of wireless network intelligence, 
guided by the core principles of surpassing, 
intelligence, and leadership, to build the most 
superior network.
the lightweight intelligent engine supports 
lightweight model training and non-real-time 
model inference, facilitating eﬃcient and 
proactive network operations through 
capabilities like quality insights and 
intelligent troubleshooting. Additionally, this 
architecture also supports the deployment 
of digital twin systems on independent 
intelligent platforms. Through data 
interaction with the physical network, it 
implements a series of atomic capabilities 
such as dynamic simulation, predictive 
optimization, intelligent decision-making, 
and data derivation. 
The intelligent service layer can manage 
and orchestrate the above-mentioned 
computing power, data, and algorithm atomic 
capabilities in a microservice architecture. It 
exposes these capabilities to operators in the 
form of AI as a service (AIaaS), empowering 
the application layer. Operators can eﬃciently 
and cost-eﬀectively integrate AI capabilities 
into their own systems through service 
calls and low-code development. This allows 
for /f_lexible and on-demand feature expansion 
as well as resource scaling. 
At the intelligent application layer, 
operators can leverage AI services to achieve 
highly automated and intelligent processes 
for network planning, construction, and 
maintenance. They can access on-demand 
capabilities for network visualization, 
modeling and simulation, precise network 
planning for multiple scenarios, optimization 
of network policies and parameters, precise 
network fault diagnosis, and predictive 
maintenance. In addition, operators 
can perform on-demand trial runs and 
performance evaluations for new services, as 
well as research and low-cost experimentation 
for new technologies. 
ZTE’s Achievements in RAN Intelligence
In 2020, ZTE launched the industry’s unique 
NodeEngine computing base station solution 
to drive the commercial implementation 
of native intelligence in RAN. By adding 
11OCT 2023