maintenance tools to reduce reliance on 
human intervention. By standardizing 
processes and tools, ZTE manages the quality 
of solutions and network changes, making 
network maintenance more transparent and 
controllable.  
Visualized O&M
The Cloud Core Network utilizes the 
core network intelligent analysis (CNIA) 
system, equipped with health analysis and 
KPI dashboard features, to analyze various 
data including alarms, performance, logs, 
preventive maintenance, and dialing 
tests. By incorporating AI capabilities, the 
system generates device health report and 
visualizes the network operation status, 
helping to identify potential problems 
in advance and improve maintenance 
eﬃciency. 
ZTE’s NetScope and NetInsight can 
be /f_lexibly deployed to display the 
vertical transport network topology for 
cross-layer monitoring and fault diagnosis. 
NetScope is an end-to-end delimiting and 
locating solution for IP network faults in 
a virtualized core network. NetInsight is a 
virtual-layer network O&M tool.
ZTE’s EMS+ and the MagicEye tools 
facilitate horizontal service-domain problem 
delimiting and locating. EMS+ is a data 
service analysis tool while MagicEye is a 
voice service analysis tool. These tools 
bridge the gap between voice and data 
services, allowing for quick resolution of 
voice problems.
High-Quality Solution
ZTE guarantees the overall quality of 
its cloud core network solution through 
integrated veri/f_ication. The solution is 
jointly developed by the product service 
preparation team, integration team, 
and R&D team. It is then veri/f_ied in real environments to ensure high quality. 
The integration team participates in the 
implementation of the solution to ensure 
network stability throughout its lifecycle 
and the availability and reliability of the 
integrated network solution. 
ZTE’s Network R&D Institute provides 
full-process management and control 
for the initial operation of the solution 
including compilation, testing, review, and 
operation support. The goal is to ensure 
the safe implementation of the solution 
without any negative impact on the 
existing network. 
To avoid manual operation errors, 
tools are used to automate operations on 
complex solutions. For high-risk solutions, 
the solution test team conducts additional 
testing and veri/f_ication, providing an 
extra layer of assurance for the solution’s 
operation. /uni00A0
 
Automatic Operation
ZTE has established a dedicated team for 
network change solution automation, using 
the automatic operation tool integrated 
in CNIA to encapsulate various operation 
scenarios and replace manual operations 
with machines. This approach minimizes 
risks associated with uncontrollable 
operation factors caused by diﬀerent 
operators and ensures network operation 
security through automation. 
ZTE always prioritizes security, and 
implements an end-to-end collaborative 
work/f_low, both horizontally and vertically, to 
create a secure Cloud Core Network for users 
and enterprises. Moving forward, ZTE will 
continue to advance the cloud core network 
to be highly reliable, trustworthy, and 
controllable. This will enable the provision 
of seamless communications services 
anytime and anywhere, contributing to the 
development of a digital society. 
15OCT 2023