Enhancing User Perception with 
uSmartNet: Achieving a Leap in 
User Experience
Deputy Director of ZTE 
Integrated Technology 
Delivery Dept.Qian Zhengtieith the rise of the 
metaverse, big data and 
generative AI are gradually 
penetrating into diverse 
sectors, creating new application /f_ields. 
Meanwhile, the global digital economy is 
developing rapidly, and the construction of 
5G networks is speeding up. Communication 
networks are becoming more complex, and 
the number of applications is increasing. 
People have raised higher requirements 
for network quality, and user experience 
has become the key to the success of 
communication network businesses. 
A conventional KPI de/f_ined based on 
an event trigger counter cannot visually 
re/f_lect actual user experience of a network. 
As a result, the focus of network quality 
improvement is gradually shifting from the 
conventional target of improving network 
KPIs to the core target of improving user 
experience. For operators, there is an urgent 
need to establish a network indicator 
identi/f_ication and optimization system 
based on user perception, and ensure that it 
provides eﬃcient and accurate functions in 
daily networks. 
Rapidly identifying and solving user 
perception problems, and achieving 
predictability and prevention of such 
problems, is an ongoing goal pursued by 
the technical team of ZTE Global Services in 
the digital and intelligent era. Through the Wdelivery of a large number of commercial 
network projects around the world in recent 
years, ZTE has accumulated comprehensive 
service capabilities in platforms, personnel, 
knowledge, and processes. The company has 
developed an end-to-end user perception 
identi/f_ication, improvement, and prediction 
solution based on uSmartNet, with rate and 
latency perception as its core objectives. 
USmartNet is an autonomous network 
platform that integrates big data and 
AI technologies, providing end-to-end 
coverage for communication networks 
from single domain to cross-domains 
(Fig. 1). The p latform provides insights into 
data from multiple domains including users, 
terminals, services, networks, and operation,  
supporting the digital and intelligent 
transformation of operators. In terms of 
ensuring user experience, uSmartNet uses 
a comprehensive KPI+KQI+QoE approach 
to establish a user perception evaluation 
system to accurately restore service 
perception. Leveraging the perception 
analysis and processing capabilities of big 
data, wireless networks, bearer networks, 
and core networks, it builds an end-to-end 
user perception analysis and optimization 
system to demarcate and locate end-to-end 
quality problems, analyze user perception 
and network complaints, predict perception 
problems, and handle the problems in a 
closed loop quickly. 
32Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic