problems. It automatically calculates 
network factors that aﬀect perception, 
formulates solutions, and provides direct 
recommendations for adjusting parameters 
at the cell level. Through the connection with 
wireless EMS, it issues commands to adjust 
parameters, achieving a fully automatic 
closed-loop of the entire process. This 
application has demonstrated outstanding 
performance in practical use and has been 
featured in the 2022 TMF release of the 
"Autonomous Network White Paper V4.0" 
thanks to its successful implementation in an 
Indonesian telecom operator. 
uSmartNet Empowers Precise User 
Satisfaction Prediction
At present, the trend in network 
operations is gradually changing from 
passive response to proactive guarantee. 
When user complaints arise because of 
perception issues, it means that network 
problems have escalated to a point 
where their impact cannot be ignored, 
often requiring last-minute solutions. To 
proactively identify, locate, and handle user 
perception problems, it is necessary to shift 
the focus towards “preventive treatment” 
measures. To this end, ZTE has built a 
customer satisfaction scoring system (CSAT) 
that combines multi-dimensional indicators 
such as key quality indicators (KQI), coverage 
quality, and customer complaints. This 
system also incorporates AI capabilities to 
predict future satisfaction trends in diﬀerent 
regions, ensuring an average accuracy rate 
of over 90% when forecasting the trends 
of various indicators over the next week. 
Maintenance personnel can then optimize 
areas with low satisfaction in advance, 
actively ensuring user experience. 
After CSAT was deployed on the 
uSmartNet platform of an operator in a 
country, it automatically detected potential 
drops in satisfaction within a speci/f_ic 
region and issued early warnings. After troubleshooting, it is con/f_irmed that 
the interference problem existed in this 
region, with a discernible upward trend. 
Maintenance personnel optimized the 
performance, solved the interference 
problem, resulting in signi/f_icant 
improvements in various indicators for that 
region. Video download rates increased 
by 3%, regional data traﬃc grew by 7%, 
and user satisfaction notably rose. This 
proactive approach prevented a large 
number of complaints arising from poor 
user perception. This system has been 
embedded in the routine optimization 
process of operator network maintenance. 
During the quarterly optimization task 
planning, the maintenance team devises 
optimization strategies and solutions based 
on the satisfaction scores of the top N areas 
identi/f_ied by the CSAT function as having 
poor satisfaction, along with the areas 
with low satisfaction predicted by AI. The 
CSAT function is also used for closed-loop 
veri/f_ication of optimization results. 
Throughout the entire process of 
network construction and operation, ZTE 
prioritizes enhancing user perception. It 
tailors network performance enhancement 
solutions to match the unique characteristics 
and requirements of operators. Over 
the past decade, ZTE has driven the 
development of high-quality networks. It 
has now achieved a multitude of leading 
network quality benchmarks in over 100 
countries and regions, providing reliable 
user perception guarantee for operators 
worldwide. Drawing upon its rich experience 
in global network operations as well as 
its collaborative capabilities driven by 
digitalization and intelligence, ZTE will 
continue to help operators accelerate their 
network automation and intelligence. This 
eﬀort aims to reduce operational costs, 
increase eﬃciency, expand revenue streams, 
and empower digital transformation of the 
industry. 
35OCT 2023