interfaces, allowing for rapid customization 
and development for complicated scenarios. 
Compared to traditional tools, this tool 
improves the operation eﬃciency by over 
80%, ensures more accurate data, and 
guarantees network quality.
During the commissioning phase, ZTE’s 
wireless and bearer products support 
remote commissioning. If a site visit 
is required for operations, the mobile 
phone app can be used for one-click site 
commissioning and tests. This app covers 
wireless, microwave, and wired products, 
and reduces operation diﬃculty. It is 
interconnected with the iTech platform, 
enabling automatic data delivery and 
improving site commissioning and 
debugging eﬃciency by more than 
30%. The SOP orchestration by site and 
automatic group building capabilities 
reduce the communication time by more 
than 50%.
After completing the commissioning, 
the on-site engineer can use AI to 
locate the root causes of alarms that 
occur and provide solutions. This allows 
for identi/f_ication of quality problems 
and completion of recti/f_ication before 
leaving the site, without the need for 
cooperation from back-end personnel. 
As a result, the number of second site 
visits can be reduced. In addition, the 
site commissioning report and workload 
estimate can be generated automatically. 
The combination of intelligent tools and 
digital platforms not only improves the 
eﬃciency and quality of site construction, 
commissioning, and debugging, but also 
greatly improves the working conditions 
of site operation personnel. This aligns 
with ZTE’s goal of paying attention to 
the health and safety of employees 
and partners, and actively ful/f_illing the 
corporate social responsibility (CSR).
ZTE has also improved its digital and 
intelligent testing and optimization productivity, as well as digital platforms 
to provide data management of tools and 
manual operation management capabilities.
To adapt to multiple scenarios, digital 
platforms and intelligent tools must be 
capable of fast on-site combination, 
programming, and orchestration. ZTE’s 
iTech digital platform is a site deployment 
platform that integrates digital and 
intelligent technologies. It consists of 
the site work platform and the data 
management platform. 
The site work platform provides site 
engineers with a one-stop solution for 
their work. It enables process orchestration, 
interconnection of tools, group coordination, 
and site navigation. By combining with 
intelligent tools, it allows for automatic site 
commissioning and tests, improving work 
eﬃciency and quality. The platform improves 
team collaboration through real-time, open, 
and visible messages. It also automatically 
calculates workload and asset changes, and 
generates site commissioning reports.
The data management platform 
focuses on the storage and full-process 
management of key technical data in the 
site delivery phase. In wireless networks, 
engineering parameter data such as 
antenna parameters is crucial in various 
phases. In the traditional management 
mode, it is diﬃcult to accurately and 
timely update data. The data management 
platform improves the reliability and 
accuracy of engineering parameter data 
by implementing online management 
across the planning, installation, drive test 
and optimization phases, laying a solid 
foundation for network quality. 
In the planning and con/f_iguration phase, 
ZTE’s intelligent product planning and 
con/f_iguration tool automates the generation 
and delivery of product con/f_iguration 
/f_iles for wireless, bearer, and core network 
products, reducing errors in manual 
operations. It provides programmable 
18Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic