UDM/HSS. This creates a solid barrier to 
prevent signaling storm. 
Trustworthy Technologies Ensure 
Product Security
Although the Cloud Core Network is 
located in a trusted domain, it still faces 
certain information security threats. 
To address these threats, ZTE uses 
industry-leading trustworthy security 
technical standards and integrates 
trustworthy security into its products. This 
construction mode provides a stronger 
shield for the security of the Cloud Core 
Network, ensuring the trustworthy security 
of products. 
Data Compliance
ZTE attaches great importance to the 
security of its core network products. 
Data security is integrated into the 
product development lifecycle to ensure 
the provision of secure products and 
solutions. ZTE strictly adheres to the 
laws and regulations of each country and 
industry. In 2020, the company successfully passed GSMA's Network Equipment 
Security Assurance Scheme (NESAS) 
audit for its development and product 
lifecycle processes. Additionally, ZTE has 
implemented more than 100 security 
activities based on the Building Security/uni00A0in/uni00A0
Maturity Model/uni00A0(BSIMM). In 2021, ZTE’s 5GC 
passed the BSIMM 11 security assessment 
and obtained the 27701 privacy protection 
certi/f_ication from the British Standard 
Institution (BSI). 
Intrinsic Security
ZTE’s Cloud Core Network products are 
designed to strengthen intrinsic security 
and provide active autonomous network 
asset security. These products leverage 
security capabilities across diﬀerent layers, 
including infrastructure, virtualization, 
service, application, and management, to 
implement network security autonomy, 
automatic and intelligent analysis of 
network policies, and /f_lexible orchestration. 
The goal is to establish an automated, 
self-defending, and self-adaptive integrated 
security protection system. 
Quick Response Mechanism
ZTE has established and improved its 
organizational structure based on three 
lines of defense to promote product 
security governance. The product security 
incident response team (PSIRT) eﬀectively 
responds to security incidents, and 
security laboratories are set up to ensure 
the security, transparency, and trust of 
products and services. 
Manageable Network Maintenance 
Ensures Reliable Network Operation 
The complexity of the Cloud Core Network 
makes network maintenance challenging. 
To address this, ZTE provides eﬃcient 
14Expert Views