ommunication networks are 
the foundation of the digital 
transformation of society. With 
the rapid development of 
digital industrialization and industrial 
digitalization, the construction of 
communication networks is accelerating. 
The challenge is to automate network 
deployment while guaranteeing the 
quality of communication networks and 
user experience.
During network deployment, the rapid 
growth in network scale and complexity 
of scenarios complicate network planning, 
solution and data preparation, and network 
operations. This requires more time and 
manpower investment, and also increases 
the risk to communication services. Manual 
site visits for distributed NEs such as base 
stations result in low working eﬃciency 
and collaboration capabilities. Repeated 
site visits are a long standing problem. 
Furthermore, it is crucial to proactively 
prevent, rapidly identify, and solve user 
experience problems in complicated 
networks.
ZTE is committed to incorporating 
digital, intelligent, and big data technologies into full-lifecycle network 
delivery and O&M processes. We 
continuously promote the scenario-based 
analysis of network deployment activities 
to improve eﬃciency and quality. Our 
goal is to increase the automation level of 
network deployment in terms of network 
planning, network deployment, network 
quality, and user experience assurance.
Precise Network Planning
Network planning is crucial for 
successful network deployment. At present, 
wireless network planning faces many 
challenges, such as accommodating future 
service growth, identifying investment 
areas that maximize value, and selecting 
the most appropriate planning solution for 
new site types and scenarios.
ZTE, with its extensive experience in 
global network planning, adopts the concept 
Vice President and 
General Manager of 
Technical Delivery of 
Global Services at ZTEHong Gongcun
New Practice of Digital 
and Intelligent Network 
Deployment
C
16Digital & Intelligent Network Services Special Topic