solve cross-domain transmission problems, 
requiring the involvement of a specialized 
team. In addition, traditional manual analysis 
is time-consuming and costly, making it 
diﬃcult to ensure the timely resolution 
of complaints. Therefore, cross-domain 
delimiting analysis of transmission problems 
is a major pain point in improving complaint 
handling eﬃciency. 
To address this, ZTE has implemented the 
one-click cross-domain problem delimiting 
through the customer complaint handling 
(CCH) function, utilizing the VMAX-S big 
data platform and the bearer BigDNA 
cross-domain capability (Fig. 1). The on-site 
team only needs to click “Query” to obtain 
the cross-domain root cause analysis results 
for both wireless and transmission problems. 
This assists the complaint handling team in 
quickly locating problems and solving related 
faults, signi/f_icantly improving the operator's 
complaint handling capability. 
VMAX-S+AAX Implements 
Cross-Domain Fault Self-Diagnosis
In the traditional network optimization 
process, alarm problems have the most 
direct impact on user perception, and are 
also common causes for user complaints. 
However, solving alarm problems can be 
diﬃcult. For example, when there are a 
large number of alarms in the network, 
it is challenging to manually analyze and 
associate diﬀerent alarm, as well as accurately 
locate their root causes. This often leads 
to a reactive approach of addressing the 
symptoms rather than the underlying issues. 
Even if the root cause is located, dealing 
with the problem in face of the complicated 
network environment requires a professional 
team, which is labor and time-consuming. 
Therefore, improving the eﬃciency of alarm 
handling is a major pain point in current 
network O&M.
ZTE addresses this issue with the CCH 
function of its VMAX-S big data platform, along with the single-domain alarm 
automation eXpert (AAX) capability of the 
wireless network. With just one click, the 
customer can quickly delimit and locate user 
complaints caused by alarm problems and 
automatically obtain the root cause diagnosis 
results and alarm handling suggestions. This 
allows the onsite complaint handling team 
to respond to alarms quickly and resolve 
faults quickly in accordance with handling 
suggestions. There is no longer a need 
for manual troubleshooting of alarms and 
analyzing root causes in a single domain, thus 
greatly improving troubleshooting eﬃciency 
and saving O&M manpower. According to the 
TMF standards for autonomous networks, 
the VMAX+AAX solution has reached L3 
cross-domain capability and is close to L4 
autonomous capability, greatly improving 
operators’ complaint handling capability.
Summary 
In the digital economy era, the use of 
digital and intelligent tools provides a 
more diversi/f_ied and eﬃcient solution 
for predicting and analyzing problems in 
the AIS network. In the 2023 Q1 Network 
Assessment organized by AIS, ZTE ranked 
/f_irst in cross-region network performance. 
As new scenarios and services continue 
to emerge, eﬃcient, simpli/f_ied, and 
intelligent communication networks are 
required. AIS is committed to building a 5G 
network benchmark. With the full support 
of ZTE, AIS has achieved single-domain 
autonomy across the wireless network, 
wired network and core network, reaching 
the L3 capability at the tool side. At the 
same time, with the deployment of VMAX-S, 
the single-domain tools can be used to 
implement cross-domain work/f_lows, laying 
a solid foundation for the customer’s 
autonomous network. With continuous and 
in-depth cooperation, ZTE will assist AIS in 
moving toward a higher-level autonomous 
network.
38Success Stories