AIS has proposed the digital strategy 
“cognitive tech-co”. What are the 
key drivers that led AIS to begin its 
transformation journey from a telco 
to a tech-co? 
In today’s rapidly evolving digital landscape, 
we're witnessing signi/f_icant changes in how 
consumers behave and how businesses operate. 
To remain competitive in this dynamic business 
environment, AIS has proactively responded 
to this paradigm shift by embarking on a 
transformational journey, transitioning from our 
previous role as a “Digital Life Service Provider” 
to embracing the identity of a “Cognitive 
Tech-Co”. This transformation represents a 
fundamental change in how we approach our 
services and solutions. We've infused innovation 
and intelligence into every facet of our 
customer-centric oﬀerings, aligning them with 
the ever-evolving demands of the digital age.
Our transformation journey encompasses 
several vital components including: 
Data Insights and Customer-Centric 
Approach:  We are leveraging data insights 
and adopting a customer-centric approach as 
the key elements to enable us to deliver fresh 
and valuable experiences to our customers. 
AIS has conducted many personalized 
services campaigns in order to meet the 
customers’ service needs, for example, the 
campaign by age that allows customers to 
join AIS special activities on the date as per 
noti/f_ied age, the campaign by interest that 
enable the customers who have plan to travel 
to get the information of SIM that they can 
use during travelling and by target, service 
oﬀering will be depending on Nationality or 
Language, etc.
IT Intelligence:  Our IT intelligence plays a 
crucial role in ensuring that we provide agile, 
stable, and secure services and solutions, 
allowing our customers to navigate the 
digital landscape with con/f_idence. myAIS 
Application, AIS Personalized Super App, is 
one of the examples that re/f_lect our eﬀort 
to oﬀer the new value service for customers. 
This application allows customer to view fees, 
pay bills, register, and monitor packages in one 
stop.
Autonomous Networks:  The Autonomous 
Network helps AIS reduce 10%+ workload, 
improve 20%+ network eﬃciency, optimize 10% 
customer experience, and enhance network 
intelligence and automation level. These 
networks empower us to provide uninterrupted 
services to our customers, 24/7.
All of these are the key components that 
support AIS services across diﬀerent /f_ields 
including: 
Mobile:  We've enhanced our 5G technology 
with AI and advanced data analytics to oﬀer 
personalized, real-time, and interactive 
experiences, providing an exceptional mobile 
service.
Fixed Broadband:  AIS’s home network 
solution seamlessly blends innovation with 
round-the-clock customer support. This ensures 
uninterrupted online experiences, now reaching 
8.8 million Thai households for peace of mind.
Enterprise Business:  AIS is committed to 
driving digital transformation for all types 
of enterprises. We facilitate this journey and 
collaborate with top-tier partners to expand 
our service oﬀerings, enabling organizations 
to thrive in the digital age.
New Digital Services:  We oﬀer personalized, 
real-time, and interactive solutions like Content 
and Insurance Services to deliver the best 
possible experiences across all dimensions for 
our customers.
And with the partnership concept of an 
“Ecosystem Economy”, the model emphasizes 
comprehensive cross-sector integration. We 
generate mutual growth by working with a range 
of partners to support Digital Transformation in 
various national industrial sectors by cooperation 
with a variety of vertical industries and business 
expert partners to co-create the 5G solution that 
can enhance the eﬃciency of industry verticals 
and businesses and ful/f_ill their diﬀerentiation 
needs.
03OCT 2023