system is a prerequisite for smooth 
network deployment. ZTE provides a 
comprehensive guarantee system for 
network quality, user experience, and 
network operations through intelligent 
network management and the VMAX big 
data platform. 
The key to assuring network quality 
is timely detecting indicator changes, 
identifying wireless network changes, and 
analyzing poor quality. ZTE’s system can 
automatically detect network indicator 
changes and analyze the root causes 
through self-learning of past indicators and 
training of the change detection model. In 
the past, it was diﬃcult to obtain device 
degradation trends from the existing 
information when a fault occurred. Alarms 
were only handled after the fault threshold 
was triggered. Additionally, locating the root 
alarm from a large number of alarms, and 
diagnosing the root causes were ineﬃcient. 
ZTE’s alarm handling expert function rapidly 
identi/f_ies root alarms and locates root 
causes after detecting problems, improving 
troubleshooting eﬃciency. ZTE’s equipment 
failure prediction function can detect 
potential problems in advance to reduce the 
failure loss rate.capabilities by leveraging automation, 
portability, and remote transformation. For 
wireless network drive tests, ZTE utilizes the 
WNG solution based on cloud services and 
automatic test terminals. This solution allows 
test tasks to be delivered from the cloud, 
data to be collected via handheld terminal, 
and reports to be generated with just one 
click. ZTE is also promoting the application 
of the virtual drive test mode based on MR in 
acceptance and optimization. By combining 
virtual drive tests, KPI, and CQT, ZTE is able 
to replace the traditional drive test mode in 
multiple projects around the world, reducing 
drive test costs in the network optimization 
test phase. 
Core network service test items can 
be complicated. ZTE’s iTest terminal 
test tool on the AIC platform provides a 
complete set of easy-to-use test items and 
functions for diﬀerent NFV components 
and VNFs in diﬀerent scenarios. After 
major operations such as core network 
acceptance, version upgrade, and capacity 
expansion are completed, the iTest tool 
can automatically perform tests in multiple 
places simultaneously. This greatly reduces 
test diﬃculty and saves test time.
During the acceptance phase, a large 
amount of data and photos need to be 
collected for the acceptance report. The 
traditional manual editing and output 
process can be prone to human errors 
and ineﬃcient. ZTE’s digital platform and 
intelligent tools can be used together 
to automatically collect data, manage 
data uniformly, and generate customized 
reports automatically, improving document 
production eﬃciency and shortening the 
acceptance period.
Network Quality and User 
Experience Assurance System
Establishing a complete network 
quality and user experience assurance 
19OCT 2023