Fig.1. VMAX-S + 
BigDNA work/f_low.
Delimitation Root causeVMAX-S
Transmission issue
CCHTransport network optimization
Transport team
Transmission issue delimitation
Customer complaint
Con/f_igurable
threshold
BigDNATransport networkRelated KPI
Packet loss
Jitter
Latency
KPI×
×
××
×
√× NPE to ACC link issue
ACC to NodeB link issue
XGW to NPE link issue√
√Test1 Test2 Test3 Delimitation
Twamp test task type
XGW NPE
Test 1Test 3SPE ACC NobeB
Test 2
on investment. However, traditional network 
planning is ineﬃcient and inaccurate. To address 
this, ZTE has launched the precision planning 
solution, which utilizes the VMAX-R wireless 
network precision planning  platform to identify 
high-value areas from multiple dimensions, such 
as coverage and capacity, and multiple space 
granularities. 
In addition, the platform incorporates 
intelligent identi/f_ication of weak-coverage areas 
and the latest functions, including the analysis of 
5G inter-frequency weak-coverage in comparison 
with competitors. This allows more eﬃcient 
identi/f_ication of weak-coverage areas and more 
accurate placement of new sites. The VMAX-R 
precision planning platform has been deployed 
in 25 provinces in the northeast and east districts 
of AIS coverage. It eﬀectively reduces the 
diﬃculty of network planning for the customer 
and quickly and precisely identi/f_ies value areas 
for expansion.
Intelligent Optimization of Antenna 
Weight for Automatic Adjustment of 
Antenna Coverage
With the large-scale deployment of 
5G, ensuring network quality has become 
increasingly important in order to maintain 
service operation and enhance user experience. 
ZTE’s adaptive antenna pattern control (AAPC) tool automatically calculates the optimal weight 
of AAU’s subbeams based on measurement 
reports collected from commercial users and 
ZTE's self-developed AI algorithm. This ensures 
that the network coverage aligns with the user 
model to the maximum extent. 
The AAPC tool not only automatically adjusts 
the antenna weight, but also self-adapts the 
antenna coverage model over diﬀerent time 
periods based on the changing user model to 
meet user requirements. All of these optimization 
operations are performed at the back end, 
which signi/f_icantly reduces network O&M costs. 
It enables a fully automated process of data 
collection, analysis, and self-optimization.   
Currently, ZTE has deployed periodical 
AAPC tasks in 25 provinces in AIS coverage 
in Thailand, optimizing more than 3,000 
sites. The optimization results have shown an 
average increase of 4 dB in RSRP and 2 dB in 
SINR, eﬀectively improving user experience 
and reducing optimization costs during the 
engineering phase.
VMAX-S+BigDNA Accurately Locates 
Cross-Domain Bearer Problems
When it comes to handling user complaints, 
on-site teams typically have extensive 
experience in handling wireless single-domain 
problems. However, they may /f_ind it diﬃcult to 
37OCT 2023