well-suited for accommodating this mix of 
various channel spacing requirements in 
transmission. It can dynamically allocate 
spectrum as needed, leading to eﬃcient 
spectrum utilization and conservation of 
spectral resources.
In the WASON service restoration 
scenario, /f_ixed grids need to manually 
con/f_igure all ports of WSS and OPM 
spectrum analysis boards on the 
working and restoration routes. When 
a large number of alarms occur on idle 
network ports, the typical practice is 
to suppress these alarms. However, in 
cases where WASON services need to 
recover due to factors like optical cable 
interruptions, the previously idle ports 
become active for the restoration path. 
In such situations, it’s challenging to 
manually and promptly remove the alarm 
suppression from these parts, which can 
lead to a problem of real network alarms 
being overlooked. In contrast, /f_lexible 
grids can automatically enable the 
ports on the route taken by the service 
through WSS and OPM spectrum analysis 
boards. When the service route changes, 
the system automatically removes these 
ports, ensuring that network alarms are 
always visible throughout the process. 
This feature makes network maintenance 
more convenient. 
In a fully automated /f_lexible grid 
scenario, during the optical-layer 
end-to-end service provisioning phase, 
the system can automatically identify 
and adjust parameters related to service 
boards and the optical channel’s spectral 
width. This eliminates the manual 
con/f_iguration steps for individual 
network WSS bandwidth and OPM 
spectral analysis board ports, simplifying 
network deployment. In the network 
maintenance phase, WASON services 
can automatically enable WSS and OPM 
ports on new recovery routes, and idle 
ports are automatically removed when the services are restored. This advanced 
capability facilitates autonomous network 
management. 
Intelligent Applications 
ZTE and a Turkish mobile operator 
collaborate for the /f_irst time to implement 
a simpli/f_ied deployment of OTN networks 
using a combination of intelligent 
solutions. This deployment encompasses 
the management and control integrated 
services, enabling OMS APO and OCH APO 
functionalities, with all scenarios based on 
/f_lexible grids.
In the network deployment phase, there’s 
no need for WSS channel setting, EOPM 
channel setting, or OA board resource 
allocation, resulting in a workload reduction 
of over 40% for single-point network 
con/f_igurations. The system automates optical 
power adjustments, boosting end-to-end 
service activation eﬃciency by over 70%. 
In the network maintenance phase, 
APO can automatically adjust the power of 
the optical system in real time, achieving 
intelligent network self-healing and greatly 
reducing the network management and 
maintenance costs.  
In terms of network evolution, the 
use of /f_lexible grids enables the system 
to automatically allocate resources 
when transitioning to diﬀerent service 
bandwidths, such as 400G in the future. This 
facilitates signi/f_icant network scalability 
and growth. 
ZTE’s OTN intelligent applications come 
with distinct advantages in saving manpower 
and time costs, improving network 
maintenance and management eﬃciency, 
and promoting network scalability. The 
intelligent OTN solution is expected to be 
widely used in future network construction 
and optimization, helping customers achieve 
rapid and simpli/f_ied network deployment, 
along with intelligent self-healing 
capabilities. 
31OCT 2023