All eﬀorts of AIS aim to deliver the best service 
to customers. We can overcome the challenges 
faced by traditional telecom providers, such as 
slow revenue growth, ARPU pressure, and pro/f_it 
challenges.
  
As CEBO, what is your mission to help 
customers enhance their business 
capability in digital transformation 
journey?
Our mission is to serve Thailand’s sustainable 
digital economy by accelerating digital 
transformation for Thai businesses with a 
comprehensive suite of digital technologies 
and services delivered by highly competent 
and trusted professionals. We have rolled out 
the “Growth, Trust, and Sustainability” program 
focusing on delivering trusted and resilient digital 
services and solutions which meet customers’ 
need for sustainable growth through /f_ive 
strategies, which are:
Connecting 5G ecosystem to enhance 
businesses:  AIS is working with partners in 
both the public and private sectors to create 
an ecosystem that supports various industries.
Enhancing secured network performance with 
intelligent network:  AIS provides both wireless 
and /f_iber optic cable connections to enterprise 
customers with gateways to both domestic and 
international connections. 
Enhancing trusted digital infrastructure and 
platform of cloud and data center:  We are 
working with world-class partners extending a suite of digital platforms encompassing Cloud 
Solutions, Cyber Security, IoT services, and ICT 
Solutions.
Enhancing digital marketing and data-driven 
business capability:  AIS is committed to 
supporting businesses with advanced data 
analysis tools.
Delivering solutions and managed services 
by trusted professionals:  With our long 
experience expert, AIS Business can deliver 
end-to-end managed services which meet 
business needs accurately, eﬃciently, and 
professionally.
Another important part to support my mission 
is “Growth, Trust, and Sustainability ” program . 
AIS has enabled our customer “Growth ” by 
creating agility for businesses with AIS 5G and 
Cloud Platforms, Data Insight & Lifestyle as a 
Service and tailor-made solutions for Business and 
Verticals. “ Trust ” with modernizing trusted digital 
infrastructure enables customer to improve 
eﬃciency, agility and security. This is delivered 
through comprehensive solutions as Sovereign 
Cloud, SD-WAN and Secured Connectivity. 
“Sustainability ” involves the creation of an 
ecosystem for developing innovative solutions. 
AIS, joining with partner, developed various 
solutions that help create sustainable business, 
such as energy and carbon emission management 
solution.
From AIS strategies, how AIS leveraged 5G 
network capabilities to enable customer 
business digital transformation journey?
Although AIS is the leading player in the Thai 
and 5G industries, we keep going to accelerate our 
network capability, create and design solutions 
and tailor adjustments for the needs of each 
industry with maximum eﬃciency.  
With AIS, the eﬃciency of 5G network 
infrastructure, both in 5G coverage and the 
completeness of bandwidth and spectrum, allows 
us to deliver a vast array of infrastructure solutions 
and platforms rooted in 5G technology. These 
encompass /f_ixed wireless access (FWA), network 
04VIP Voices